I dunno if it is wise to post up here daily on skimming and trawling with a little bit of commentary... probably not... in flagrant violation of United States Of America and international laws. Maybe I should even comment on how one might suppose that news bits impact algorithmic models for the Greeks on various options or volatility in equities markets.

----------

Sunday assorted links
by  Tyler Cowen December 31, 2023 at 12:00 pm
1. What Kent Hendricks learned this year, always good.

2. NYT calls for the total destruction of all extant major LLMs.  Of course this should be a scandal, and considered an example of unacceptable predatory behavior, but it isn’t.  How is this different from what a super-villain would say?  Brian Chau, telephone!

3. “A sweeping purge of Chinese generals has weakened the People’s Liberation Army, exposing deep-rooted corruption that could take more time to fix and slow Chinese leader Xi Jinping’s military modernization drive amid geopolitical tensions, analysts say.”  And is the CCP moving on Alipay?

4. Where to eat in Madrid.

5. The sources of cost inflation at Auburn University (WSJ).

6. The kinds of questions people are asking GOAT.  Galbraith gets his chance!

7. Milei kissing his girlfriend.  And Milei responding to a critic on socialism.

8. Maxim Lott monitors political bias in chatbots.

9. Hannah Ritchie sanity on climate change (NYT).

10. What Shruti has been reading.

----------

Skip to content
Menu
Search
Subscribe
Log in
The Economist | World News, Economics, Politics, Business & Finance

The World Ahead 2024

Ten trends to watch in 2024
A letter from the editor of The World Ahead

The world in brief
Japan issued a major tsunami warning in three coastal prefectures after several earthquakes, including one of 7.6 magnitude, struck the country...

Israel’s planes bombarded central Gaza while its troops fought ground battles in Khan Younis, a southern city...

Ukraine launched air strikes on Donetsk, a Russian-held city in eastern Ukraine, killing four people and injuring 14, according to Russian-installed officials...

Two weeks before Taiwan’s presidential election China’s leader, Xi Jinping, declared that the island’s “reunification” with the mainland was “inevitable”...

Continue reading

International

How ransomware could cripple countries, not just companies
Experts think 2023 was a record year for digital attacks

United States

American pollsters aren’t sure they have fixed the flaws of 2020
That does not inspire confidence for 2024


Anwar Ibrahim, Malaysia’s prime minister, is wasting his opportunity
Having sought the top job for decades, he is making a hash of it


Back Story: A cultural guide to new year’s resolutions
Lots of writers and fictional characters make them. Fewer keep them


From the archive: When will China’s GDP overtake America’s?
Recent forecasts have pushed the date further into the future


1843 magazine | Nagorno-Karabakh, the republic that disappeared overnight
In just a week, its entire population fled


Israel and Hamas
All of our coverage of the conflict in one place


Republican primaries poll tracker
Can anyone beat Donald Trump?

The Intelligence
Today: A journey through the world of ambient music

Christmas specials

AI is stalking the last lions of Hollywood
The first actors to lose their jobs to artificial intelligence are four-legged


How the young Winston Churchill escaped from a prisoner-of-war camp
And what his unlikely tale reveals about imperialism


A tale of penguins and prejudice is a parable of modern America
When two male penguins hatched an egg in Central Park, they set off an enduring controversy

What the journey of a pair of shoes reveals about capitalism
And how Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim country, is changing

World news

Israel prepares for a long war in Gaza
But it is unclear how it will end


Kentucky eyes ibogaine, a psychedelic, to treat opioid addiction
The state’s commission may use some of its opioid-settlement money to study the drug


How will Britons vote in the next election?
Just two-thirds of Tory voters at the last election say they would make the same choice again

China is stoking a controversy in order to influence Taiwan’s election
Is the island’s ruling party trying to “de-sinicise” students?

Business, finance and economics

Will America manage a soft landing in 2024?
Policymakers rarely bring down inflation without a recession. This time they might


Attacks on shipping in the Red Sea are a blow to global trade
But alternative routes are a boon for shipping firms


Who was the best CEO of 2023?
We measure up the business world’s top dogs

The five biggest market surprises of 2023
Shareholders have had a remarkably good year. Forecasters have had a terrible one

The World Ahead

United States in 2024

The people to watch in 2024 ahead of America’s election
Some are well known, some are not


Asia in 2024

Indonesia will elect a new president in February
But economic policies may not shift much after Jokowi’s departure


Economics in 2024

Rich-world labour markets will remain strong in 2024
Even if there is a recession

Britain in 2024

Which Commonwealth realms might ditch King Charles III?
A new wave of republicanism is gathering

Read full edition
Strife in the Middle East

Israel isn’t sure what to do about the hostages in Gaza
Every option is fraught with danger


Middle East in 2024

Don’t give up on peace in the Middle East
But the process of getting there will be alarmingly fragile


The US Navy confronts a new Suez crisis
Houthi attacks on Red Sea shipping threaten global trade

Israel and Palestine: How peace is possible
A peace process can go wrong in many ways, but a real possibility exists that it could go right

Ukraine, Russia and the long war

How five Ukrainian cities are coping, despite Putin’s war
From ravers to rubbish collectors, residents tells their stories


A majority of congressmen want more military aid for Ukraine
They are being prevented from voting for it in the name of phoney populism


Ukraine’s army is struggling to find good recruits
Russia is suffering immense casualties—but it has the edge in manpower

Ukraine takes an important step towards EU membership
The EU’s leaders agree to open accession talks with it—but Hungary blocks a big aid package

Explore our full coverage
American journalism

1843 magazine | When the New York Times lost its way
America’s media should do more to equip readers to think for themselves


Can you have a healthy democracy without a common set of facts?
America’s presidential election is a test of that proposition


Donald Trump is the conservative media
No institution that enjoys the trust of Republican voters can successfully stand up to him

American journalism sounds much more Democratic than Republican
Whether this reflects bias or reality is in the eye of the beholder

Visual storytelling

Vladimir Putin is dragging the world back to a bloodier time
His attempt to conquer Ukraine ignores the lessons of history


Inside a month of America’s school shootings
The hidden impacts of gun crime are devastating and poorly understood


Western values are steadily diverging from the rest of the world’s
People’s principles were expected to align as countries got richer. What happened?

Large, creative AI models will transform lives and labour markets
They bring enormous promise and peril. But how do they work?

More interactive articles
The World Ahead 2024
The World Ahead 2024
Future-gazing analysis, predictions and speculation

Ten trends to watch in 2024
2024 will be stressful for those who care about liberal democracy
America will need a new vocabulary to discuss its presidential election
Europe needs to step up support for Ukraine
Don’t give up on peace in the Middle East
The world must try to break a vicious cycle of insecurity
China’s leaders will seek to exploit global divisions in 2024
Demand for “green” metals will redraw the global mining map
Don’t count on a soft landing for the world economy
Generative AI holds much promise for businesses
A cricket World Cup comes to America
Read full edition
Stories most read by subscribers

Russia tries to overwhelm Ukraine with missiles

Who was the best CEO of 2023?

What the “superforecasters” predict for major events in 2024

Ten business trends for 2024, and forecasts for 15 industries

Will America manage a soft landing in 2024?
Featured read

Many Trump supporters believe God has chosen him to rule
The Economist tries to find out why

Holiday double issue
WEEKLY EDITION: DECEMBER 23RD 2023
Holiday double issue
On safari in south Sudan
The planet’s biggest conservation project is in its least developed nation

Global warming and wine
New vineyards are popping up in surprising places; old ones are enduring

Penguins and prejudice in America
When two male penguins hatched an egg in Central Park, they set off an enduring controversy

China’s new love of the beach
China’s beach culture is a microcosm of society

Read full edition
Special reports: The new economy net zero needs
SPECIAL REPORTS: NOVEMBER 25TH 2023
The new economy net zero needs
It is vital to climate stabilisation, remarkably challenging and systematically ignored

Carbon-dioxide removal needs more attention
The temptations of deferred removals
The many prices of carbon dioxide
Trees alone will not save the world
Carbon-dioxide-removal options are multiplying
A net-zero world needs new markets and institutions
Sources and acknowledgments
Read full report
Podcasts

Why 2024 could be the biggest year for democracy yet
As ignorable as it is interesting
From Sandra Day O’Connor to Sinead O’Connor: 2023’s notable deaths
Films

Unsung lives lost in 2023
Will the BRICS challenge America in 2024?
Could industry go green at last in 2024?
1843 magazine

Nagorno-Karabakh, the republic that disappeared overnight
Cornel West’s quixotic presidential bid holds dangers for Joe Biden
Afghans fled the Taliban in droves. Now Pakistan wants to send them back
Climate change

Can the carbon-offset market be saved?
Meet the boffins and buccaneers drilling for hydrogen
What responsibilities do individuals have to stop climate change?
By Invitation

An industry pioneer on the under-appreciated benefits of the global mobile revolution
We need to focus more on the social effects of AI, says Nicholas Christakis
David Miliband sees a new global geography of crisis
Graphic detail

How many books will you read before you die?
Has Twitter (now X) become more right-wing?
Why are cities in Latin America getting more expensive?
The Economist explains

Could the Democrats replace Joe Biden as their presidential candidate?
Why the price of olive oil is soaring
Who are the Houthis, the group attacking ships in the Red Sea?
The Economist reads

What to read about Congo
What to read about Christmas
What to read about dementia

----------

