Crew <3 Original Illangelo

"Alright, alright, alright" keep it all public for now new information security walked outside to a psuedorandom location did a phone reset new Apple reset WiFi new Google reset machine and new random passwords chained from there to protect my private insights assets see what I post in public here. Ah yes I was told conveniently ~10 minutes after a police checkup when a man came by to blow gasoline into my apartment via recorded 911 phone that I am "free" to report any such harassers which makes me feel safer so it is always good to remind Americans how free they are and who protects their freedoms. I am tip tapping away Social Network style and I imagine this girl sings to me "take your nose off your keyboard... what you following me for?" and I say in a highly educated London accent "I am good, I am good, I am great. I just need a girl who will really verifiably understand... so girl what you singing for? It is because... we are blowing like a C4[.69]."

Calmed down a bit and am dealing with the technical air optimisation problem and precise baking soda details. Feeling better today executing side by side observations of cardboard and Bob's here to execute a final floor covering. As a rationalist guru with some status who knows assets, my utility function from money, common knowledge here but for sure we shall see I mean to hit 100000000 would require that I take an offer from X if I obtained 1. Back to the public common knowledge on Artificial Intelligence on my Github!

To really understand Lilac Gold one must know Matilde Marcolli as well as the history of rationality and the whole "Crazy Lilac" "Lazar Ilic" thing as well as the notion of Rose Gold now Rose and Lilac both flowers and scents of course and Rose Gold a metal and theoretical piece by the United Kingdom trap artist Hucci but the position here is forced it must be the L tetromino for Lazar and Lilac and the colour hexes are also forced by definition. And so on and so on these rationality bloggers are dorks... I model the precise physics, electrical engineering, signal processing of the photons in the setting in the oculi in the neurons at the 'perceptive subjective time moments' lived experience of observation. Tricky to estimate latency with Coordinated Universal Time. It is much more than a "dumb square" from the Project Euler Gold Medalist androgynous android transhuman hacker. It is a piece rich in historicity, meaning, and context. Properly viewed centered on monitour in a natural frame of Black it really strikes the viewer especially if they are executing Productivity.txt and thus it is not a piece worth missing out upon. [?] Price? Betting on the sale price? To put it simply, it simply looks good. A still life tunnel of a modern 2022 finite infinite jest [of 10 hours long auto onanism sessions over those 5000ms and how they "affect" me].

Wake up in my house in a quiet Austin, Dripping Springs, Marble Falls, Princeton, Long Island, San Marcos, Taipei, Boston, San Francisco, New York City, Chicago, Philadelphia, San Diego, Miami, Madison, Toronto, Beograd, Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, Paris, Berlin, Dusseldorf, Hamberg, Munich, Frankfurt, Brussels, Rome, Madrid, Venice, Athens, Amsterdam, or London suburb with some status, prestige, and 100000000, "which one"?

Concrete trigger action plan:

Upon securing a job:

Generate a 1/1 non fungible token and hold a public online open ascending price auction for:

Lilac Gold.png

Skeyelar Grey Via Qiaochu Yuan Hand Drawn On White Card Stock Paper

1x1 White Minimus.png

When Peter Winkler dies his: Black Square End Of Proof Hand Drawn On Paper

Conundrum 2.png

Lazar's Judaea First Revolt Silver Shekel... Contemplation, "Good Luck", Hanging Framed Over Dinner Table As A Reminder To Thank Myself, My Mother And Father, And All The Inspirational Great Women, Men, Mothers, And Fathers For Putting The Meat There