	Searching For Wife

Use smooth deep voice. Do not be boring and repetitive. Practise talking with nubile graduate students at departmental tea times, talks, and events. Use simple English. 0 value judgements about culture. Ensure to have debit card, driver's license, check in online, secure mobile boarding passes, earplugs, Charged Up iPhone, Charged Up Asus Chromebook, toothbrush, toothpaste, floss, Blue + Green light blocking goggle goggles, sweater, sweatpants, ankle bambooz socks, etc. Take rigorous notes immediately afterwards in diary.

	Letter To Free Real Estate Agent

Hi,

I am looking to rent an extremely quiet unfurnished 1-story 0-1500sqft house or microhouse with a low-odour modern vinyl|wood|stone|tile|concrete floor on ~2 acres in a cul de sac or in a neighbourhood far from noisy primary roads. I prefer a thermostat sensor in bedroom if possible, extremely bright unshaded sunlight in living room, effective ventilation fan in bathroom, 0 laundry machines inside, and am willing to pay up to $2000|month. Please send me a list and we can schedule times in the next 48 days to visit properties. In particular, these properties listed on your website looked like appealing candidates:

[Ranked In Preference Order:]

X

Y

Z

[With Links And MLS Multiple Listing Service Identification Numbers]

[Ping Directly Via All Platforms To Minimise Cost And Latencies]

[Do Not Sign Leases Where Someone Else Has A Legal Right To Access One's Rental Unit]

[Discuss Custom Lease Clauses With Counterparty And Terms Relating To New 0 Plastic Top Loaded Stainless Steel Laundry Machine With Stainless Steel Outer Drum And Stainless Steel Top Lid]

Sincerely,

Lazar Ilic

----------

	4th Pitch To YCombinator ~2024 [Top 5% Winner] And Mark Cuban Email: Bambooz: Undyed Bamboo And Cotton Firm: "Low" Prices [Target ~$20 Shirts, $35 Sweaters, ...], Strong Cultivar Selection, "100% Bamboo" Or "100% Bamboo Viscose" Regulation-Depending On Easily Removable Tag [0 Disclosure Of Our Chemistry], 0 Logo, Simple Website Perhaps Based On Yeezy, Cotton + Cotton Pillows, Bamboo + Bamboo Pillows, AVOCADO Bedding Competition, EcoAYA|Industry Of All Nations Clothing Competition, ? Hire Strong Chemist[s] And Biologist[s] ? Intellectual Property Lawyer[s], Strong Post-Productional Chemistry And Shipping Packaging, Try To Minimise Toxicity Of Involved Chemicals, Genuine Sustainable Agriculture, Manufacturing Equipment, Flip Flops [Inspired By Yeezy Adidas Slides], No "Organic Japanese" Marketing, Offer White Bleached Maybe H2O2 Hydrogen Peroxide And Outperform Maggie's Organics' Quality

	3rd Pitch To YCombinator ~2023 And Jonathan Ma Blinder: Firm Firm: Selling Bottoms Up 99% ? Material Al Aluminium Rectangles [Low-VolatileOrganicCompound White Side[s] Option] Which Rest On Thin Corner Extrusions Very Close To Wall Automatic Rolling Sunlight Tracking

	2nd Pitch To YCombinator And Founders Fund Peter Thiel Directly ~2022: Zen Cubes: Lengthy Medium Quality Pitch

	1st Pitch To YCombinator ~2021: Sxy: "Biologically Realistic" Water Based Lubricant And Low-Volatile Organic Compound Saliva-Compatible Sex Toy - Invertible Stroker For Easy Rinsing Which Can Also Be Inserted In To Doll For Practising Procreational Sex

----------

	Ivan Dominic Illich

Interesting Wikipedia page. I was curious as to Miller Illenium and Montagnese Illangelo... Lazar Illuminatus. This comes in to attempting to explain anti-medicine and Robert F Kennedy Junior style rhetoric too. I promote and defend general practise, finding their measurements useful. Were I to channel vibrational energies in a 10 or 20 pages essay titled On Psychiatrisation, I would read more first. Americans are especially prone to othering and outgrouping people with different preferences and referring to them as having brain illnesses. Medical Nemesis was not that good.

	Explaining Introductory Anti-Psychiatry To Elite Foreign Graduate Students

Dr. Scott Alexander Siskind's recent writing on LessWrong on Elon Musk was blithering. A terse wannabe general practitioner might write instead: Elon's Tweets quality is somehow at an all time low. His brain is probably not healthy and he ought to consult with a sleep neurologist.

Another case study from the news with some intentional ongoing communication lost in translation: Barbara said to the honourable judge that because Samuel struggles with sharp eyesight, he ought to be given a lenient sentence for the heinous crime of fraud.

"Sharp eyesight" here being how some physicists might interpret the "high functioning ism of autos" label classification or whatever. Annoying psycho' lingo mumbo jumbo which some medical scholars would agree is nearly informationless. Would seem like a common reference to an underlying referent that is not Good And Real. I, like some others in the rat' scene, find general practise and epidemiology to be more compelling than the promotion of psychiatry, and also find James Simons and Kenneth Griffin funding neuroscience to be a bit annoying, disappointing, and counterproductive perhaps.

	إيمان Imane Anys Is A 0|10 With Makeup And A 9|10 With N0 Makeup

Reviewing footage of that film of the cutie putting on makeup. She quoted Onika Maraj and uttered "show my ass like a stank hoe". Haha.

	iPhone 16E Notes

The 5S had a much better form factor for my tiny hands. Too expensive. The subReddit dedicated to the iPhone recently had a post... would have been aight if the back were flat the entire time with e.g. the lenses embedded in the back panel that way.

	Dr. Yuefang And Dr. Desheng Lived ~3 Miles Away From Shaker Heights High School

Around the time of Scott 'Cudi and Colson Baker.

	0 More Fatphobia As Well

I felt bad for the solid actor Jonah Hill when I was watching some clips of Hollywood, California interviews. It is unfriendly to call my nice old mum fat. Was thinking about Patrick Bateman and Aleks De Large... Christian Bale is funny and Matthew Damon's [centre] left talks are strong and entertaining.

	New Year 2025 Resolution

Floss and brush teeth following any food|drink. Also, 0 pornography including soft core Meta reels content like 김혜수 아이돌네이션.

	Mark And Nancy Misage Aeroplane News

Cool they completed their Richard VanGrunsven 12.

	Nicholas Minutaglio Net Worth Estimation

I might casually estimate percentiles around... 5% $100000 50% $1500000 95% $20000000 with quite a lot of mass between $500000 and $5000000.

	Rap Peaked Around ~2010-2012

Melodic trap production grows boring. Sample-driven stuff like Coming Home - Pusha T is more compelling.

	Japanese News Roundups

Could do a monthly review of my Japanese news feed but ought not to. One on the Shimanami Kaido reminded me of an old idea I had. If I were a billionaire, I could construct a 50km cycling and running track through a new public park in central Texas. Any time a productivity web logger mentions cardio vascular exercise, the air and precise details come in to scrutiny.

	University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Master Of Computer Science Review [Emailed To admin@cs.illinois.edu, academic@cs.illinois.edu, grad-admissions@siebelschool.illinois.edu, grad@siebelschool.illinois.edu, namato@illinois.edu, vmahesh@illinois.edu On 2024-12-24]

Include more proctored closed notes examinations with tricky mathematics tasks. And maybe open internet ones. As well as lengthy solo programming project assignments where unoriginality is not an option. Harder 5AB course offerings. Peer grading and extra credit ought to be avoided. Tests ought to not reveal information until the testing period is over. This degree is plausibly overpriced but potentially fairer than Harvard Yale Princeton Stanford MIT MS Master Of Science degrees. I was shocked by the bad manners and unprofessionalism of peers asking for information about ongoing tests in Slack channels. Bring back the algorithms and data structures test but make it harder and required for admission.

Further thought 2025-03-25: I probably misevaluated the MS Master Of Science degrees from HPSM Harvard Princeton Stanford MIT. Solid content. If I were to go to one of those schools I would aspire towards a perfect GPA Grade Point Average. Now I am working through Stanford Computer Science and Statistics content.

	New Dream

Professor Of Statistics. Somewhere strong. University Of Texas At Austin would be lit. Rice maybe. Seems possible. Plausible even. Maybe do Quantitative Research to get in the money for the IO house first. Maybe University Of Texas At San Antonio Lecturer is more plausible.

	Ism Of Natality

Mark Zuckerberg's The Facebook Reels feeds me tonnes of films of Chinese girls breastfeeding.

Give Us Feedback About A Facebook Feature:
Product Or Feature: Videos
Your Feedback: On Reels in desktop website on a Apple Macintosh Book Air machine in the Google Chrome browser, the "..." "More options" button conflicts with the "........." "Menu" frontend button at around half monitour tab width. This is suboptimal for providing negative feedback in the loop.

	Side Question

Probably already well understood and studied but say we are going to read in 10^10 bits and want to compress and recompress somewhat optimally along the way to minimise the integral of the memory usage across time like... maybe someone at Amazon would know about work on this task.

	β

Reading up on risk management.

	Thermics Review

23.9C|75F in the morning is not nearly as bad as I thought it would be compared with 27.8C|82F.

	Interview Question On B- In Databases

I sadly failed to convince Dr. Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang that I understood integrating Neo4j with a website prior to my teammate doing so and thus was given a very low score on our team final project. Furthermore, I was authentically mediocre in Programming Languages And Compilers. Aspiring towards securing 4 As in the 2024 Fall term. I ought to have tried much harder to score a 4.00 GPA Grade Point Average and even more A+s.

	Ingredients Question [No Reply As One Might Expect]

From:
lazar_ilic@yahoo.com
To:
contact@smogarmor.com

Friday, July 12 at 07:22 AM

Hi,

I was wondering if you can reveal the ingredients to me? In particular, I am curious about measurements versus the ECOS firm and|or vanilla etc. I saw the ECOS firm listed their ingredients in public to be: water, zeolite, acrylic, vinyl acetate, mineral oil, ammonium polyacrylate, silicone, kaolin clay, titanium dioxide, ammonia, lye, glycerine, hydrogen peroxide, sodium salt, vanilla, acrylic, ethoxylated acetylenic, limestone, polysaccharide, silicon dioxide.

Sincerely,

Lazar Ilic

	Rage Against The Machine

I ought to have prepared a much more comprehensive formulae sheet for my Scientific Visualisation midterm.

	LASER Microphone For Audio Surveillance

Not very effective for spying on Kenneth Griffin and company. Plausibly illegal under Florida state penal codes on communications. PI Private Investigation law is interesting. I read a couple introductory books.

	Object Edge Detection Commentary

Funny perceptions relating to rendering the Rouge tank Blanc in Imperfect.png. Alters the way one perceives skin tone colour. An algorithm is to do standard edge detection and then also block off any point within some distance metric of those previously detected. Another is to break down the edge in to components and then shift translations with respect to computed quasiperpendiculars to those edges and extend somehow. Still interesting enough as reflections of the light photons potentially cause Rouge skin organ appearance in the image file. Serious issue the Pika firm might run in to: some users will instantly react negatively to any marginal deviation edge pixel even in 4k rendering settings and so one might think that adding an extra buffer is wise for clothing etc. Now it is an Off White version. Simple old school paint image editor by hand is supreme to the SOTA State Of The Art in machine learning. Maybe not - see further thoughts on optics and photonics. One would not want humans to label 10^18 pixels in a high resolution scientific setting.

	CostCompany Further Readings

Perhaps their CEO Chief Executive Officer is taking a substantive hit to profit net loss intentionally. I am unsure of their meat market quality. Farmed Norwegian Atlantic Salmon and USDA Prime New York Strip Steak at $18|lb in South Austin are OK.

	Austin Police Department

Recent news on the Austin Police Association re brain health crisis calls is interesting enough. Most cops are working hard and trying their best. Some officers are friendly and save lives. It is their duty to deal with people in those situations. They even protect paranoid citizens from loitering and suspicious activity in residential neighbourhoods by driving by and taking notes. One could explicitly ask the state over the phone to record with their cameras and then later request and save the films if they do not do so on their storage to create an .mp4 record.

	Unhealthful Content - Mingyuan's Post "Guide To Rationalist Interior Decorating"

It is better to have a low odour floor with echoic psychoacoustic reflections of breathing and typing sounds off of the floor and walls rather than damping in a mathematics research work room. Some might also strongly prefer a cotton rug or bed.

	Hard Backup Is Useful When Google [Drive] Servers Crash

If one has all critical files on a Macintosh machine and is content with Google Drive's 99.9% uptime then ignore.

	Gorila Massive Chest-Beating! #gorila #kiyomasa #shabani YouTube · Something About Gorilas ゴリラっぱTV 2.6M+ views · 1 year ago

I was considering tiger and 四川金丝猴 dancing to impress girls but have finally settled on 大猩猩 so I have practised head thumping as well as dynamic left and right leg movements.

Reading more Japanese news on this gorila gorila gorila is funny. Some say he is a good father.

Silverback Gorila Beats His Chest So Hard To The Female That He Loves ❤️

If I... Do My Dance for a girl at work... ought to Resist Temptation.

Apes Freaked Out When I Spoke Their Language by Xiaomanyc 小马在纽约 was also funny like maybe I should learn how to speak Tigerese at the zoo. Writing the book Devolutionary Psychology - How Modernity Is Decreasing Mathematical Productivity. OKOKOK but the key is to get on all 4s maybe hands and knees and go up to a very young male around the same body weight or size and then say to him "喵喵 喵喵 喵喵" maybe sniff his neck snuggle up with him just grab him ensure he does not bite and lick him.

	Anti-Comedy Comedy Club

Po-Shen Loh's improvisational comedy is unfunny. As is mine. After reading about the history of the Ritz on East 6th Street in Austin, Texas where Joseph James Rogan's club Comedy Mothership is. Laughing at Slavoj Žižek as well... anti-comedy. Could open up a set like: "has anyone here seen that movie - They Live?" Some old dude in the crowd might chime in like "yeah, sure, I saw it when it came out." And reply back "I thought it was funny. Just makes me laugh thinking about it. I do not understand why it is often classified as Horror." Better to simply show up to open microphone night wearing a body building tank top with that phrase printed on it. This anti-joke continues something like... "I work for Apple as a Software Engineer. We are creating the transparent computing environment!" Eventually get a part like "and I wonder why these kids walk around with iPhones in their pockets and OBEY baseball caps on their heads." Proceed: "I have an awful lot of empathy with the aliens. If I saw Nada loitering near the office, I would call the police." If I were in that World Peace scene from Miss Congeniality "what is the one most important thing our society needs?" Discuss harsher penalties for petit larcenists such as Jelena Anicic Ilic, who ought to be indicted by a local honourable judge. It is a sin [8th commandment] and furthermore a heinous crime against humanity when people like her thieve mangos from the grocery store bulk section so... елем. Stan could reply: I feel similarly about disturbing the peace, and further think local rappers performing on the street constitutes obnoxious noise.

If I saw Po delivering his unfunny "joke" about not knowing history and then mentioning he knew the War Of 1812 happened in 1812 I might ask him as a followup question: when did Pyotr Ilyich compose the 1812 Overture? See if he falls for the bait or instead has nontrivial credence on another year like 1880|1882. Then see if he understands shallow truths about riflery and cannons from the time period.

	Caltech California Institute Of Technology Ought To Proctor Examinations In A Testing Centre Resembling A MAGMA Meta Apple Google Microsoft Amazon Office

Precisified further: 4 metre gaps between large desks, sun lighting, optional desk lamp which points down at white paper, 0 bathroom breaks for 3 hour tests, cleaned with isopropanol rather than a "harsher" solvent like BuOC2H4OH 2-Butoxyethanol e.g. I perceive ~everything to be harsh nowadays.

"
Destroying any nation does not require the use of atomic bombs or the use of long range missiles. It only requires lowering the quality of education and allowing cheating in the examinations by the students.
Patients die at the hands of such doctors.
Buildings collapse at the hands of such engineers.
Money is lost in the hands of such economists and accountants.
Humanity dies at the hands of such religious scholars.
Justice is lost at the hands of such judges.
The collapse of education is the collapse of a nation.
"
- Nelson Mandela

	Richard Feynman Quotation

"
Take any crazy idea. It is hard to make up a very crazy idea – witches, for instance. And you talk about what people used to believe about witches, and you say, "How could they believe in witches?" And you turn around and you say, "What witches do we believe in now?"

What ceremonies do we believe in? Every morning we brush our teeth. What is the evidence that brushing our teeth does any good against cavities? And you start wondering. Are we all imagining that, as the earth turns and the orbit has an edge between light and dark, that along that edge all the people are doing the same ritual – brush, brush, brush – for no good reason? Have you tried to picture this perpetual line of toothbrushes going around the earth?

Take the world from another point of view. Now it may well be that brushing the teeth is a very good thing because it gets rid of cavities, but you can try to find out whether it does or doesn't. You ask your dentist. He says, "Of course." And you say, "What about evidence?" I have not found the evidence from dentists, because they just learned it in school. Now I am not trying to argue whether it is good or bad to brush teeth. What I am trying to argue for is to think about it. Think about it from a new point of view.
"

	Never Starting A Restaurant|LZ Steak House [Too Competitive]

Thinking about the prices at The Grove. My fantasy would be a steak shop called LZ Steak out in Westlake, Austin, Texas. Make the logo a kind of maximal LZ character like the Gothic one used in Death Note but with flowers added on. And in the real life version have actual flowers at the entrance to the restaurant. Relatively simple menu say 5 steak options, 5 sauce options where you can pick 3 free with a steak, 5 side options, a couple dessert options, maybe some drinks wine overpriced by the glass or bottle or whatever. Name a medium price on the steaks. See Ideas Z folder under Sketches. Perhaps one ought to hire a chef, mixologist, and waiter[s]. State higher prices on nice drinks. Maybe call it El Zee and place it near Baguette et Chocolat. Dunno the precise rent around there and that Galleria mall for say a 3 month trial contract.

	Minimus [3-100] [Start With <=5] Micro Houses Community Design Notes

If I was running one in ~Dripping Springs, Texas at an intentional counterfactual financial loss I would certainly have materials sort of like IO [cheaper flooring and HVAC Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning most probably] as well as plausibly... read local zoning and land laws to ensure no construction or obnoxious nearby activities for at least 100 years, tight weather strip, huge windows [with "Low-E" written upon them], sun skylights in living rooms, etc. a ban on laundry and dryer machines, covered outdoor nice top-loading metal laundry washing machine 0 drying machine room with provided standard fragrance-free detergents [? Nellie's Laundry Soda - Sodium Carbonate Na2CO3, Linear Alcohol Ethoxylate, Sodium Chloride NaCl, Sodium Metasilicate Na2SiO3 Or Something Simpler Freer And Clearer Liquid], a ban on noise pollution and partying music from speakers, 0 pets, camera recording permitted, management surveillance, outdoor parking spaces, communal mail room [to assist in casually surveilling and enforcing the 0 laundry dryer machine policy], 0 annoying management entering units, 6 months minimum lease structure, 30 days airing paint between clientele if [? scraping and] repainting, field and gravel track between units and laundry room, simple metall auf metall gymnasium, opaque fencing between units if cheap enough, clearly inform prospects of contract terms to try and avoid later negative experiences and reviews, etc. I have been viewing tens of properties in the Austin, Texas region and one of the more interesting ones was a single lot in a quiet spot in East Austin with 3 micro houses on it. Is an OK structure depending on demand on the buy side. One can go simple and still just state a medium price point on the sell side. Most probably want insurance and plan expectations for profit net loss in such an endeavour. Upon even further review and considering a micro house community I saw here in Austin, I would maybe set up the units pretty far apart and then have each unit with an outdoor laundry washing machine which I could replace for each new tenant maybe. Like the IO house community, would be convenient if it goes badly to have optionality to partition up the land and opt to sell each micro house separately. Zen Cubes is a stronger idea than personally dealing with people and Sensitive Home sells a better fragrance free liquid: water, sodium coco sulfate, alkyl glycosides, oleic acid, glycerine, ethanol, alpha-amylase, ethylhexylglycerine, phenoxyethanol, protease (subtilisin), sodium gluconate, sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide. With chemical numeric identifiers written down on the label no less.

	Stenography

Interesting profession. Perhaps some earn $125000|year at 300 words|minute. I would imagine many GRE Graduate Record Examination 6.0 essayists type at 100ish not sure. I usually have a tonne of time to contemplate flows and repermutations of strings for the back half of my attempts after typing 1000 words.

	Sensitive Home

"
"I am an empath by nature, always looking for how I can help others. And since I spent over 30 years formulating cleaning products at Clorox, it was only natural that I'd find a way to continue to help people in that same light."

Dr. Gregory van Buskirk, founder + chief scientist + fascinating LinkedIn profile and patents

Do No Harm, Heal the Earth
We think of life as being secure and safe but it's not. Instead, we live on a tightrope where quality of life can disappear at any time. And so I thought if I could do something to enhance the safety of something as mundane as cleaning your house, that would be a legacy I knew was worth chasing! 

Why should you be penalized for cleaning your house?
I already knew that many so-called 'safe' products didn't perform their number one job - cleaning effectively! And when a leader in the sensitive community told me that products claiming to be green, plant-based, and non-toxic [like the natural, bio-based products I invented at Clorox] still irritated those with skin, respiratory and chemical sensitivities, it affected me deeply. At that moment, I decided I needed to do something to help the sensitive community have a quality of life that's been missing, sometimes for their entire life. One where they could have a clean house and preserve their lifestyle without toxic side effects like itching, wheezing and migraines.

I started over
I spent 8 years looking at common cleaning ingredients at a molecular level and found that even those that were 100% bio-based still carried contaminants. So I took an entirely new approach - starting with a clean toolbox of ingredients to create cleaners that would be safe for everyone, especially those with sensitivities that can't tolerate any contaminants or harsh chemicals. Finally, we would ALL be able to get first-world cleaning using plant-based products! Visit Our Science page to learn about all the techy chemistry stuff!

Eight years in the making, welcome to Sensitive Home.
"

"
Hi Lazar —

This is Greg, the co-founder and inventor of Sensitive Home products. Thank you for your inquiry into the
availability of our products! First, as I have been rather candid with others, I have been very frustrated
with the pace of our relaunch. This has been compounded by the fact that although one of our investors
bought our old inventory
"
... - 2025-03-24

	Review Of "What To Look For In A Male Prenatal Vitamin" By MD Medical Doctor Andrew Yang Sun

Aight. Nitpicking on word choice... I would prefer to see "psychologic health" rather than "psychological health", knowing that the latter is more standard in common modern American English. He is probably quite sharp. The only thing that really stuck out to me was the precise E dose. I am not a domain expert but was under the impression that γ is sharper than α tocotrienols. Solid chance he has done more literature review than I have as many medical doctors might find the time to read biological archives nearly daily. One might still think the E and Se Selenium doses could be lowered.

	Public Review And Email To Natalist Firm support@natalist.com

Many would benefit from nonvegan fish-derived Omega-3 in their multimicronutrient [? citations].

"
Lazar I.
Verified Buyer
5.0 Star Rating
04/27/24
Solid
Review by Lazar I. on 27 Apr 2024
Strong multimicronutrient. Fairly well dosed. My primary complaint is that I would prefer the nonvegan fish-derived Omega-3 in the packet.

Comments (1)  Was This Review Helpful? 1 0
Comments by Store Owner on Review by Lazar I. on 27 Apr 2024

Natalist Team
04/29/24
Hi Lazar! We are glad you are loving our Male Prenatal Daily Packets and thank you for your feedback! xoxo, Natalist Team 💜
"

"
We debunk junk science and are not afraid of data. We do not dumb things down, but also explain in a way that does not assume everyone knows some thing. We believe in research. All our products and resources are backed by science and our decisions are too. We are a source of truth for consumers. We educate using the latest research and brightest minds.
"
- Natalist Team キッスランド 😻 [https://natalist.com/blogs/learn]

	FaceMash

Image generator predicting faces of offspring from image files of parents, ? training data set, genetics, etc. because generic androgynous merger software regresses nose size towards the human mean in a genetically unrealistic way etc. with respect to recessive probabilities. The underlying variance here is quite high.

	Dean Karnazes

One might think an optimised running urine bag and trashing would be an optimal rule for ultraMarathons.

	Multimicronutrient Optimisation

	Low Cost Texas Florida House Rent Market Scanner

For 100% remote labourers and the Reddit.com/R/Frugal /R/FinancialIndependence readership.

	CodeCoder

Competitions based around 1-5-10 day mock tasks which are more similar to handling Amazon tickets, Google, MAGMA Meta Apple Google Microsoft Amazon, etc.

	HackerRank Multiple Languages Potpourri

Done.

	Amazon Software Engineer Advice

Try to change team early on if desired, be pleasant and friendly with one's boss [despite their probably unintentional counterproductive "advice" to query Sage and BuilderHub which are usually inferior to ChatGPT|Google] and team, warmer clothes, no boxers or sweaty tanks|tees at the office, detail orientation perfection ism, take time to contemplate codes prior to submitting them for Code Review [aspire to getting it right upon first shot], work hard 12 hours per day, do not ask coworkers for help often, appear professional and focused during meetings, study Amazon|Amazon Web Services and read GitHubs prior to day 1 like https://github.com/aws-samples and all of MAGMA Meta Apple Google Microsoft Amazon GitHubs, tonnes of code.amazon.com skimming early on might also help, produce strong written records, etc. I could potentially ask a future firm for reference codes to review prior to starting and clear expected latencies for tasks. See Notes Z Sketches Folder for outfit inspiration most likely to not offend any bosses or coworkers.

	Predict Property Taxes

Consider evaluating land markets.

	Textifying .txtifying Program

Reflecting upon my 538 Riddler Official Solutions.txt file production and errors in my Google Code Jam and CodeForces manipulations I realise that I ought to produce a fairly robust first pass filter script. Replace all sorts of interesting things in the Right order if desired like:

"

"

To

"


"

And

"



"

To

"


"

And so on and so on. "One " to "1 " and " one" to " 1". Written up elsewhere in my Ideas folder file Textifying.txt.

	26|26 Optiver Trader Numerical LogIQ Test Film Screen Captured

	CodeForces >= 2100 Challenge

I ought to secure >= 2100 by 2024-12-31 credence ~0.9. Then primarily focus upon research|阿里巴巴 Global Mathematics Competition and a little Meta Facebook Hacker Cup preparation looking to secure Top 70 on both in 2024. Update 2024-10-22: 0 more musicing around. I had a great opportunity to snag Top 25 on the Meta 2024 Round 2 and blew it. Time to lock in and focus. Target for the future is Top 25.

	Rapper To The Onion Headlines

Examples... Lazar Ilic: Solipsism And "Love". Gerald Earl Gillum: Unhumble Bay Area Poet Struggles With Alcohol Addiction And Liver Failure. Symere Bysil Woods: Lovey Rager Forced To Undergo "Mental" "Health" "Treatment". Gerald Earl Gillum Redux: Unhumble Bay Area Poet Dies From Liver Failure. Kurt Cobain: Overrated Whiner Blows His Brain Out With Shotgun. Chester Charles Bennington: Sneerers Sneer As One More Light Flickers Until Its Time Runs Out. Kanye Omari West: [Violent Strings] Niggers Kill Themselves, Vivat Rex In Homine.

	Facebook Friends Graph

After many tasks on this topic including a recent Tanya Khovanova Maths web log post:

"
A Random Pair of Friends
24th December 2022, 02:32 pm
Consider a group of people in which some are friends. We assume that friendship is symmetric: if Alice is Bob's friend, then Bob is Alice's friend. That means we can build a friendship graph where vertices are people and edges correspond to friendships. Let's assume that every person has at least one friend, so the friendship graph doesn't have isolated vertices.

Darla needs to conduct research by surveying random pairs of friends. But first, she has to find those pairs. To ensure that the pairs are randomly selected, she must pick two random people from the group, contact them, and ask them whether or not they are friends. If they are, she gives them her questionnaire. If not, Darla wasted tons of time and had to keep looking.

The group she is surveying is enormous. So, when she picks two random people, they typically have never even heard of each other. Bother!

Darla decides to speed up the process. She would pick a random person, ask them for a list of friends, and then randomly pick one person from the list. Since every person has at least one friend, Darla always ends up with a filled questionnaire.

Puzzle question. Why is Darla's method wrong? Can you describe the pairs of friends her method favours?
"

I decided to go ahead and scrape ~10000 mathematics contestants, MassTechers, CalTechers, etc. etc. and their .txt friends lists into a large .txt .csv file to process through my own analyses of the friends and the overall underlying friendship graph.

	33dB Noise Reduction Rating Earplugs And 30|36dB Ear Muffs Optimiser

I ought to compose a program in conjunction with a digital microphone instrument to observe and predict background noise in apartment and ping me to remove or insert earplugs and optimise this live feedback loop perhaps with in-the-loop subjective perceptions in the mixture. It would seem as though I have been far too error prone in both directions and am underoptimising a somewhat deleterious status quo bias situation.

	Sleep Health Quality Air Temperature Humidity Optimiser

I want a ~odourless ankle health metrics monitour instrument with which to optimise a smart thermostat at night towards cognitive health tasks performance metrics and objective underlying Grey Goo health correlates. Obviously mood tracking is an objective subjective perceptive mooshy woo realm of non sequitur to the cognoscenti biological hacking nootropics gang. Maybe run it for ~1 week every ~3 months to track an underlying optimised nightly temperature and humidity curve.

	LaTeX Typo Detection

Compose a program which reports errors, ignoring macros and commands.

	Pizza Cutting Task Generalisations

How to cut object X with Y cuts such that so and so metric is minimised e.g. want roughly equal volume slices.

	Election Information Flow

Contemplating priority of bits and bytes to inform e.g. a trading firm over the expected utility information theoretic value of what precisely.

	Twin Primes

Of course 1 funny immediate idea has to do with the naive ideas related to sieving and prime factorisations of twin pairs of the form p1 * p2 * p3 * ... +-1.

	A Drunk Man Will Find His Way Home

Not sure what sorts of papers have been written up on the topic of other sorts of random walks in Z2 and when they do have a P=1 of returning or where threshold values are.

	Automated And Application For Temperature Control

I am not sure how precisely to optimise in IO with respect to daily curves, and say humidity perception tracking if humidity is not easy to tightly control at all times.

	John Isner Versus Nicolas Mahut

Off the dome interview style one might Fermi estimate say 100 years of Wimbledon and 128 - 1 = 127 matches per is 12700 matches and say like even if it was a coin flip then [4 choose 2]/[2^4] go to a 5th set for obtaining the score of 2-2 after 4 sets. Then [10 choose 5]/[2^10] will be 5-5 after 10 games and then even say if the probability of pairing off the relevant game is a 0.9 advantage there is something like an expected number of matches going this long or longer to be ~ 1.53 so this is a really interesting spot to try and come up with a posterior on say the match being rigged and the players being in Kahoots to form a world record. Got me thinking about the precise details of claims about the most unexpected sporting statistics across all sports and like "random" pointless events captured in the Guinness World Records book which I viewed a few times as a child. Bad weak model.

	Auction Rigging

Consult the literature on the game theory, credence, optimality of actions, and strategies say if one is bidding on one's own auction to price manipulate in this market.

	Simple Typeface Ideas

Forget what has been done before, been a long time since I deeply studied these. Would love to do simple lines, simple lines restricted to vertical and horizontal, as well as a restriction to circle arcs and lines.

	Wikipedia Quiz

Perhaps based upon local, American page views count... uh somehow use Natural Language Processing or human generated test questions perhaps multiple choice. Could give a very quick immediate little data point for a proxy of "generally half educated" in a formalised numeric notion. Could be a fun little one, I am a little curious about my own potential performance here which I know would be quite a lot worse really than plenty of "130 IQ" Westlakers in fact.

	538 Riddler Troops Allocation Task

I am not sure if this task has been resolved in the Game Theory literature. In a setting, there exist n discrete territories say with values. And each player can allocate their troops accordingly with the winner, judged under some metric, of each territory winning all of that territory's value. Worth examining coalition structures.

	The Boring Project

Perhaps many things will fly to get me in for Quantitative Researcher or Software Engineer at a top trading firm at this point. Could demonstrate a bunch of Object Oriented Programming and principles maybe cook up like some boring exploration game something with maybe history and countries and like new countries and like I dunno trading and currencies foreign exchange between countries.

	Trading Computer Science Software Engineering Projects

I have observed many projects listed on Resumes and Curricula Vitae which apparently rose beyond the level of utterly boring into slightly unboring enough... perhaps I can in fact soon get to composing up some outperformant C for those Joshi tasks I left hanging a few months back and/or some linear algebraic parallel library.

	Tetris Game Theory

It is an interesting enough game, not in the combo setting but rather in the traditional Marathon setting or perhaps 40 Line clear setting under some metric where the earlier the line clears... really considering analysing the 5x10 well case with and without a variety of different bag settings and look ahead settings. Think the canonical bag and 5 look ahead might be interesting. Immediately the sort of 2^50*... ebonicspositions suggests that a naive True full dynamic programming enumeration of states and state based action set analysis will not work out and so this particular task may be well suited for a little case study in Reinforcement Learning. Perhaps even this could constitute a cool little project or even a mediocre paper submission on say the sort of precise hand waved value evaluations of the look ahead feature function in strategy. Just how useful is it really? I was flashing back to the Tetris Effect from my youth and just how funny the latency is when you primarily feel like your conscious attention is exclusively on the look ahead bar. Also, could consider metrics in fact related to DAS, Delayed Automatic Shift, so that hypothetical key strokes are penalised. Dunno about 4 wide i.e. a 4x10 well. Maybe I can smash this out today and generate some nice graphics and visualisations, .gif files, .mp4 files even make it all look real good custom colours minimalism and everything and then yay maybe Neural Information Processing Systems will even take this type of aesthetic garbage about such a deeply canonical and fascinating game and hoi polloi will love it and go wild and think I am what is litty lit lit and interesting and then choose to hire me finally yay list it as a Paper/Project. Nah but seriously for real maybe this is the Key Idea I need to secure the bag as a Quantitative Researcher or Algorithms Developer or whatever. Ensure to include memory of the bag used thus far in the state as well as say the T-spin move and similar moves in the transition function or else the hardcore observers will think it was a too casual paper and model.

	Tron Light Bike And Snake Slither Games

Worth examining. Maybe we can also like study different coalitions teams with different speeds or functions. Discrete Z2 setting. Not even quite sure what has been said enumeratively about number of distinct paths or sets of paths from which starting points in which underlying points sets or asymptotics and comparisons. Simple setting of square and corner starting point. In the vein of that Inernational Mathematics Olympiad hook problem task composition technique of just enumerating anything and seeing where it goes to flip it into a paper submission to like the Electronic Journal Of Combinatorics if it gets mid or high brow enough.

	Front End Design On News Feed Application

I was thinking about about like colour hexes and Conrad Bassett-Bouchard. Now a User Experience Design Manager at Google. And the various things he did on the web log of the Collins Coalition at CoCo Scrabble. And Woogles.io. I might apply to Google Fi in fact but anyways thinking back to my News Feed application I want it to look really good. And be simple maybe simple horizontal rectangles and you click on the thing and it has all the raw .txt pre loaded 0 image files and then when you click it the .txt expands and then any relevant image files come in but it needs to have 0 latency on the .txt components in the feed. And maybe a summary up top to give the user the option to exit after reading that summary. In any case still working on some fundamentals and ideations for that project. And I want custom colour options but especially White on Black and Black on White as pre set button options for users. Call it New News.txt OK sketch this out a little further. I think I will pitch this 1 to Y Combinator right now cook it up mostly pro bono it just fuck it great idea.

	Statistical Learning And Inference Final Project Brain Storming

Analog to advertising where they maybe generate like 100 advertisements and then test iteratively to produce the best 1 maybe somehow try and take articles body texts to produce optimised Headlines for a news firm e.g. Kind of interested in predicting say views count from the body, or views count from the Headlines based on a more complete Headlines dataset, maybe this could be useful, maybe predict plays on YouTube films, Likes on Tweets, plays on Spotify system platform or whatever... dunno if this is all seriously well studied. Maybe simply hop in the mix on one of these Kaggle Deep Learning Tensor Graphics Processing Units tasks. Maybe there exist some bored YouTube or Spotify users and I could help them with playlist generation tasks.

	Simple Sun Days Leaks

Benjamin Aaron Shapiro's father was a composer. If we were doing a podcast episode from Clear Pill... could discuss introductory musicology, professional audio equipment, early music, a cappellas, comedy rap. My modus operandi is to listen to a piece with my eyes closed and then write reviews from memory. Reviewing Christopher Liepe's review of Mayday - Three Days Grace is interesting enough if vocal performance coaches want to pause a cappellas and comment more closely. When I do cinema I take notes whilst viewing in a text editor. The way Matthew Walst inflected "nothing" in the already cringey lyric "you know you know nothing" was eh indeed.

The More You Know: You Know You Know Something
We Sing Like Dead People Who Haven't Died Yet
We Rock Like We Wannabe Pirates
We Keep Losing Our Minds But We Always Find Them
O I Love Violence Even More Than Silence

Daddy Rock is a strong genre. The drumming is not underwhelming nor is it over the top aggro'. I was trolling some friends in a group chat on the topic of phonk and decided to hit them with a very agitative Timeless TikTok Electric Guitar Versions OVOXO Remixture.

Ever Since I Took A Poop, I Been The Shit
You Should Blow Your Brain Out With A Blick
Bleed Out, Slit Your Little Wrists
Overdose On Pillies Like A Bitch
XOs Every Day, It's My Hobby
EverClear And Cocaine In The Lobby
Chrome [To The] Dome With A Fully Waxed Body
Yes I Am A Hottie And
I'm Timeless [Yes]
Timeless [Uh Huh]
Timeless [Ah]
Timeless [Ah]
Timeless [Skrrrt]
Timeless [Pop Pop]
Timeless [Yungh]
Timeless [Oof]
Timeless [OK]
Timeless [Facts]
Timeless [Alright]
Timeless [Mmmhmmm]
Timeless [Woah]
Timeless [It's Lit!]

Was also laughing my ass off internally that is at Tiger as always... partially because Louisa Lulu Chua sometimes Tweets on the topic of comedy rap. Lap Dance with the tigress:

Keep It Urbane
Sippin' Champaign
Do "Conscious Rappers"
Understand Tigers?
NAAAGGGHHH

But if I wanted to actually comment on how awful the game is nowadays would toss Charli XCX a solid 0|10 solidly in the garbage trash crew. Most poppers and rappers deserve 0|10s for mediocre lyrics and performances. Symere is half funny on Goose Chase as well as Fast As You Can and Go Cold, ... and I love Colson Baker on Taurus e.g. the affectless, podcast talking style delivery is underrated. Were I to hop in on that one for Simple Sun Days it might go down something sorta kinda like:

Living In The Matrix
Feeling Limitless
EYES ON FIRE
Your Spine Is Ablaze
Felling Any Foe With My Gaze
And Just In Time
In The Right Place
Steadily Emerging With Grace
[Skeler Outro]

Toss Holden Mui, Emily Jia, Amy Chou, Vincent Huang [worst taste of all time thus far] ... and Dara Wenjia Li all 0|10s reviews on composition. They are not artists because they do not play a DAW. Furthermore, they lack the prerequisite ChromeDome status. Give the half American Chink Kev' Nish' a 10|10 because 24-bit depth 96.0 kHz Identity was litty. Flashing back to Andrew Kwon and Shawn Serrano wanna do non sequitur would be like:

[F-VR]
Passionfruit Watermelon
Papaya Guava Lemon
Fruit Juice Is
Forever Ever
Me And You Girl It's
Now Or Never
Under My Umbrella
Ella Ay Ay
Ella Ella Ay Ay Ay
Ay Ella Ay Ella Ay Ay
...

At some point in the musing, I would opine unhumbly to Ben' on the topic of vuvuzelas, Spanish, Portuguese, Brasilian, Puerto Rican electronic basically mention that when Julio Alejandro Mejia was bored, high art emerged. And also Quest For Fire - Skrillex was a 10|10. I am an awful singer live [Colson is half decent] and self-aware of it, that is why I try and do a hundred takes to nail it on the record. Colson and Gerald are by far the greatest white rappers of all time thus far, 'Nem and Mac Miller being overrated. If 27 was even sadder and more acoustic I would hop on it crying mang bruvvv cous' if I die at 27 I'll die a legend sadly not going to heaven. Stuff White People like huh Stuff Some Crackers Love. Anyways one ought to down 5 shots of EverClear and then observe Oliver Rajamani live in the flesh understand la musique or whatever.

	Podcast: The Even More Partially Examined Life

Maybe just start a little podcast here try and become mildly wealthy and extremely famous get in the money off of a digital microphone instrument and whatever it is I think is funny or interesting in the news with my own analyses on the interconnected network try and pop[ular] off like Michael Cernovic [fellow Illini Α gorila "psychologist" without a degree in primatology], Milo Yiannopoulos, or Benjamin Aaron Shapiro [with whom I have selfies I have not yet posted in public on my GitHub but did leak in CalTech message threads] [from The Red Pill film premiere Los Angeles 2016-10-14 and PolitiCon ~2018-10-21 respectively]. Maybe I can just do [Slavoj Zizek or Phil Ion [Pinnacular Pussboi], Dr. Yuni Xia style] ranting over clips from cinema... 300s films on YouTube. 1|week is plausible. Accomplishment partially achieved with over 10000 distinct readers of my web log. Perhaps I ought to make it more clear, Benjamin Aaron Shapiro is funny sometimes. I have friends who are not merely in favour of Unanimity, Inequity, And Exclusion but also fully believe that White Genocide is real. I have endorsed reparations for slavery and hiring sharp American African people with some chronicity. Benjamin's 176 LSAT score qualifies him to the Triple 9 Society. Black Mirror Season 1 was fun but now it is platitudinal bull shit like "sometimes we have to do things that we do not want to do." Well as I get older and more in to mathematics and biology research, it becomes apparent that Lazyr Loves The World lyrics and Cloud Atlas screenplay also are "platitudinal" and tautologous like in Cloud Atlas when Luisa Rey said "you have to do whatever it is you can not not do".

	Barack Obama

"
Ironically, data leading to Obama's likely LSAT scores have been publicly available “for over two decades from, among other places, the Library of Congress,” Lockwood says.

According to Lockwood, LSAC data reveal that during the 1987-88 academic year, ten African-American students from Columbia University applied to law school. Only two earned LSAT scores above the 63rd percentile, and those each had scores in the 94-98th percentile–i.e. scores between 42 and 45 on the 48-point scale then in use (166 to 171 on today's 180-point scale). The other students earned scores that would have been extremely unlikely to qualify for admission, even considering factors such as affirmative action.

Other demographic data from LSAC–including the fact that there were only two 27-year-old African-American students five years out of college that year who achieved scores in that range–further suggest that Obama's LSAT scores were among the two from Columbia in the 94-98th percentile. 
"

My posterior after reading this is that it is totally possible he scored quite highly and still possible he did not. Given his speeches... I would not be surprised if he scored highly.

	Everyone Is A "Little" Bit Racist

I feel bad because on a recent litmus test I rated a paper by an Israeli "-ski" as a 10|10 and a similarly influential paper by an American Chinese male as an instant 0|10, oops. Ought to change my name in online comedy sessions to Eleazar Ilyich. 0 more ism of race or commentary on uncritical unthinking goyim. "Goyim" here is unnecessary kinda like if a Westlaker Varsity Baseball player hit "nigger" with a hard R as a verb and said: Lazar ought to cease attempting to make money by selling poetry, niggering around next to a digital microphone.

	Dr. Zarathustra Brady Logic And Satisfiability Literature

There existed some interesting papers and open tasks here which are certainly worth contemplating deeply at some point in time. In the mix to stew and brew upon if possible, unclear how much more background reading will be required or helpful.

	Lazar Ilic News .txt Aggregator

At some point I will definitely need to write up my own little script, natural language processing, to have a good set of 1000 headlines, as well as some selected paragraphs from say the top 100 articles of the day or so roughly and might post the code and output somewhere on my own personal GitHub page. This one is going to be a smash hit at the implicit name your price to opt in to pay I mean hit me at my Venmo any time to contribute to the funding of this poor struggling natural language processing artist. Miniature links for post facto clicking after skimming. Frequency, quantity, mix of "the news hoi polloi need but do not want", and also learning from their clicks.

	Metaculus Performance Hacking

Of course one ought to solve the News .txt Aggregator task and practice on an alternate first, produce robust performance, and then hop in the mix on the primary "Lazar" account. Read and scrape the entire site and run a variety of analyses on other users and auto analyses as part of maxing out the centaur style updating and post facto machine learning based "fixing" and automated updating prior to optimal perhaps latest time commit.

	Deep Learning

One task I thought maybe search a lower resolution image version for the lower resolution version of the target such that we are properly prone to overly matching and then execute further matching analysis upstream in those search regions of the higher resolution image.

There exist pre processing algorithms which can be executed upon a dataset pointset based upon X alone which may indicate that executing a k nearest neighbours or any variant thresholded functionised k nearest neighbours algorithm will be weaker e.g. one may think a degenerate case of a bunch of sets of k + 1 close dudes is bad.

	Light Bike Game

Generalisations, graphs, game theory, combinatorics?

	IBM Ponder This Task

Sometimes one tries a natural lattice mesh of points, say to test some function, or inequality, or to randomly execute as starting points for a gradient descent. But, is there some smaller set, leading to more computational ease, which nevertheless performs highly on relevant queries for relevant data sets?

I would think that in the distribution it would make sense at the very least to have some distributions polynomially and exponentially approaching convex hull vertices and boundaries along various paths.

	Kaggle Upvoted Comments Analysis

Write up some natural language processing and a script to ping the Kaggle server to automatically take me from 5 bronze comments to 50 and hit the "Expert" rating on the platform.

	Betting Mechanism

If it was not written down for circumstances without markets or simply private individuals choosing to engage in this. I proposed that 2 parties, say 1 proposes to the other that they bet on an upcoming binary event using this mechanism. Then they can discuss a magnitude e.g. a simple negotiation hopefully leaking not too much information for a constant c. Then the mechanism itself simply consists of the 2 people simultaneously writing down a and b and then the bet is given by c*f[a,b] now for example one might hope to satisfy a variety of desiderata. If one uses f[a,b] is the natural simple bet with bettings odds implied at [a+b]/2 : 1-[a+b]/2 then for example perhaps some agents can be incentivized to write down True underlying credences and have a bet wherein the EV capture prior to updating on the new information is something or other. Now I mean the actual matters are the matters but I wanted to propose something where they aren't using a bet following a friendly and revealing discussion rather the 2 agents are interested in a kind of a "fair" way to immediately attempt to capture EV off of eachother say they both just think they have an edge or whatever.

	Another Natural Language Processing Thought

Maybe to help editors, myself included, of Wikipedia a simple trawl to collect potential blue link insertions in to articles so that Wikipedia becomes even more connected of a graph help give the reader more easy use value.

	Introduction To Introductions

I feel that quite a few people would really benefit from a big survey perhaps even with estimates on information and hours like not just a compilation of 10000 Wikipedia articles to read in one single text file but rather a sequence of theorems and definitions to give people some ideas about what is out there.

In terms of topic categories as a starting point: rationality books, economics, biology, maths, computer science, cities, great men, politics, classics, religion, mythology, scientists, food, art, countries, philosophy, etc.

	Anthropics

I pinged Robin Hanson prior to Grabby Aliens with the thought that our existence implies there was not a light speed expansive takeover singularity in the history of our light cone and that in conjunction with the age of the universe and perhaps the numbers on abiogenesis credence one would deduce a very low posterior on the probability of abiogenesis producing such a singularity and of course it would then follow that we don't have much evidence of being a particularly unusual instance of abiogenesis and thus our probability of producing such a singularity may be lower than thought a priori. In terms of "reference class"es my perception is that a large number of philosophers and thinkers are totally wonky wacky and out of touch with reality. They don't understand the philosophy of the mind, tbe brain organ, human diversity in terms of cognitive research. And they really lack an understanding of logic and computer science 101. A lot of Not Even Wrong, just poo which is not well mathematically formulated at all really and precisification reveals just how empty and inane some of their textual strings are really.

	.mobi, .epub, .pdf to .txt File Conversion

So there exist many techniques such as calling the replace all function with line breaks, nulls, "PARAGRAPH", more line breaks in order to rapidly convert in to a legible .txt file of a book. But making this more automated would help some people. For example to rapidly produce these table of contents to notes .tex template files I use [ctrl c] [ctrl v] and then I call like 52 instances of replace all with " a" to " A" and "-a" to "-A" and then I replace all new lines with 3 new lines. Native .epub and .mobi to .txt file conversion can be very very good and it is worth trying multiple source files until producing a 0 error conversion and then calling the replace all function on "'" to "'" and """ to """ as desired e.g. one can even call on "Mr" to "Mr." and "Mrs" to "Mrs." etc.