Nonfat Jogurt Breakfast
Meat, White Rice, Orange|Grape Juice, Warm Fruit [Alphonso Mango|Berries] Puree Lunch
Light Dinner [Pasta|Crackers|Avocados|Baked Sweet Potatos|Carrots...]
Trusting Kiddos' Intuitions On "Cm(H2O)n" Carbohydrates
Casually Coercing Kiddos In To Eating Solid Large Quantities Of Food And Never Promoting Anorexia
Weighted Stretching|Weight Liting + Weekly Stand-Cycling 90 Minutes UltraMarathon [Metal [Stainless Steel Coated] Dumbbells In Bedrooms Works]
	Dripping Springs Can Do Outdoor Stationary Cycling Or Maybe Nice Trail Half Marathon Running Most Of The Year 50km Elliptigo RSUB Road StandUpBicycle? Rowing In Living Room? Rowing Might Be Optimal Due To Peace, Quiet, Thermics, Ease, ... Not Sure Stationary Bicycling Is As Biomechanically Fun... Outdoor Running 10000m Is Fun If And Only If Nice Nearby Gravel Trail Or Maybe Track Depending... Think Maybe A Half Marathon Or 16000m Run Outdoors Once Per Week Is Optimal Athletic Habit
Natalist Multimicronutrient + Ω-3 + Magnesium Mg L-Threonate [|Lysinate]
Permanent Hairs Removal|Hollywood LASERing|Epilating|Shaving Exfoliating Kiddos
Bamboo And Cotton Fabrics Only
Household Trashcan In Front Of House And Policy Rule To Always Wash Dishes Immediately
Ensuring Teeth Brushing And Glass Straw Usage
	Brush With Them Habitually Or Require Kiddos To Film Brushing
Daily Morning Sunlight

Mathematics
Physics
Chemistry
Biology

Target Perfect Scores On Usual Tests [Solve An Open Erdős Problem [Credence < 0.05], International Mathematical Olympiad, Putnam, Alibaba Global Mathematics Competition, Medical College Admission Test, Graduate Record Examinations]

Review Old Notes On Parenting

Research In High School
Perhaps Ignore Olympiads
Maybe Target Mathematics Olympiads
0 Internet|Audio Until Later
Films [Native Macintosh Book Machine Speakers] Whitelist ArXiV Library Genesis ...
Mathematics And Home School Friends
Getting Delivery 1|Month [| Maybe Eating Out]
Aim For University Of Texas At Austin Undergraduate Admission And Matriculation At 16 Years Old
Teach Driving And Give Smart 42|Fiat Blah...
Promote Laundering Bed Sheets Monthly After Solving That Problem [Consider Optimal Metal Top-Loaded Laundry Washing Machine With Freer And Clearer Fragrance Free Liquid]

Snuggle Cuddle 1 Hour Per Night [Afternoon More Convenient To Avoid Winter Cold Night Air] Until They Marry

----------

Art Of Problem Solving Textbooks
Olympiad Corpus
Mathematics

	Parent Staying At Home With Kiddos Until Age ~10

	Reading

Exclusively pre-2012 British textbooks? 日本語 Japanese? The Great Ideas Syntopicon Great Books Of The Western World. Can consider the textbooks used by Phillips Exeter Academy e.g. saved from exeter.bncollege.com or similar elite private schools. Explain this choice to undergraduate admissions.

	Writing

Promote technically right analytic scientific English. 0 trolling. ~0 comedy.

	Apple Macintosh Book Air + ? Paper + Mechanical Pencil + Automated Scanning > iPad Maximum + Stylus Apple Pencil

	Wikipedia And Wiktionary Downloaded And Easily Queriable

	Promise

Inform kiddos that I will support them financially for life if possible. If rich, leave them a few million $ and donate the rest out of magnanimity.

	University Of Texas At Austin

Could tell them that dormitory living is lousy and I will not be purchasing a nice property in Boston or Pasadena. Also, MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology and CalTech are expensive. It would be convenient if they ace the SAT at 16 and gain admission automatically to UT Austin. Can ensure they study towards a 4.0 GPA Grade Point Average and explain how Kosta wasted money sending me to CalTech. Also try and have them do internships and work in Austin too maybe so they are always protected and never have to face rent markets. CalTech and MassTech are both stronger but it is still the case that many graduates come across as lacking educational attainment and frankly Harvard is worse.

	Perhaps Just English And Memorise ~24000 Words Of 日本語 Japanese, Latin, Greek, French, Italian, And Chinese

Maybe if my wife is a friendly girl from Shanghai|江苏 then I can learn Chinese. If I move to Japan then Japanese. I sob on my pillow often because I ignored Xun Yang's advice and might never understand Chinese. Might end up marrying a European|Canadian|Australian. 50% credence not Asian. I dunno who I am compatible with.

	King James Bible Around Age 8

Laughing... generate a Hieronymus Bosch style image of Lazar suffering in hell... Dante Alighieri. Tell them to be goodly good good. Something about actions and words.

	Bret Easton Ellis Bibliography Unit

Laudable.

	David Foster Wallace Bibliography Unit

	A Clockwork Orange, Cloud Atlas, The Social Network Screenplay, Review Old Notes, ...

	Sports Unit

During tennis, mention the notion of an "unforced error" and mention some I made in life.

	Estimation

	Metaculus + Prediction

	Practise Acknowledging Our "Known Unknowns" And Weak Areas

e.g. I am not an expert on the implementation of the 4th Amendment and search warrant law in the United States Of America circa 2024 and so we would need to ask a lawyer specialist to explain more complex nuances in that domain. An elite Bar tutor would know some things. If the local police department were to examine my home, they would find >$20000 of professional audio equipment and instant coffee... 0 cocaine. I can tell them I am seriously lacking gift and talent at basketball etc. and even being a reg' Top 500 global puzzler is significantly different from Top 50 or elite research mathematician.

	Consumer Psychology Studies

Perhaps task them with generating new advertisements for Balans Jogurt, Mivela, Donat Magnesium Water brands. Maybe force "+" and "++" to appear super duper iconic ionic and healthful. Ask what they think of extant work first. Is Mg Magnesium a 1%, 10%, 100%, 1000%, 10000% kind of "productivity booster" allegedly? I just drafted an Apple Lazyr Loves The World advertisement .gif of an Apple Macintosh machine with the phrase "We Are Creating The Clear  Environment" and the sequence Computing, Film, Art, Music, Apple with corresponding images. Inspired by George Condo and /U/JiggyTrapper's art for Yeezus. As well as Tiger Nguyen Ng̃ 阮's 空山 基 Kyoto and the Cousin Who Stole Kanye Omari West's Silver Apple Macintosh Air Machine. And of course Professor Wasalu Muhammad Jaco's Dopamine Lit Drogas Light.

	Biology And Anti-Psychology Anti-Psychiatry

Visual Aesthetic Notions Through The Ages
	Head Hairs, Makeup, And Body Mass Indices > 22.9 Are Ugly
"Clean" And What It Does Or Does Not Mean
	Dermatology And Anti-Dermatology Artificial Chemicals Immediately "Unclean"
		Pharmacists At Vanicream Are Trying To Generate Value
		Plenty Of Dermatologists Are Trying To Help Patients
High Functioning Ism Of Autos Is ~ Not A Physically Real Brain Health Condition
Using Water To Remove 90-99.99% Of Some Dreck
Biologically Hacking Genetic Modifications On Bamboo|Cotton Cultivars To Minimise Odourants
Promote Sobriety And Hope Wife And Children Are Not Severe Instant Coffee Addicts
My Sensory Issues Are Primarily Driven By Instant Coffee Addiction And Suboptimal Life History Rather Than Human Chorionic Gonadotropin Use

	Explaining "Morality" And Incentives

Try and present a relatively straightforward Judeo-Christian framework of analysis on what "bad" and "good" mean. When my kiddos meet my mother, perhaps we can ask her why she fails to fear the power of the state. One might think she is running a nontrivial risk of nontrivial indictment for serial petty petit larceny over years of thieving tens of kilograms of dried mangos from the Central Market grocery bulk section. Evidently she manages to reach the nadir of a behaviour when she is inspired to snack on candies without paying for them there whilst shopping. I Might Be Wrong on risks associated with torrenting, not seeding, and storing in a nonprimary Google Drive. ~0.0001. Kosta would perhaps say only half-jokingly that he married a very bad woman who birthed a very bad son. Beautiful And Damned evil heathen hellbound sinners. Criminals. He rents DVDs Digital Versatile Discs via the inter library loan system. I am not sure this information is captured in image files, but I think in terms of the ism of hirsute, Jelena Anicic Ilic sprouted around 20 hairs on her chin. So there. Androgenetic alopecia is obviously not a real medical condition and neither is trichophobia. Medicalising a normal phenotype. And yet YouTube commenters will insist Peter Attia MD Medical Doctor is a fugly 0|10 dude because he has no head hairs. Whatever. Kind of awkward reading American medical practitioners' writing on body hairs. If Jelena is cooking up noninstant coffee and I whine at her insisting she is about to trigger a heart attack she might blankly gaze upon me and assert that she is "a tortured soul" [furthermore her "self portrait shows a woman that the wealth tortured"] and proceed to ignore me because she really enjoys her various habits along with their emissions in to our shared air flow at the Lost Creek house. The indoor air quality there is measured as pretty mediocre. Jelena and I also share opinions e.g. if blah|[bamboo viscose] produces a large negative externality on the environment and is legal, one ought to use it anyways if one feels obligated by rationality to do so. Drill [orally interrogate] her and tell her to pack a miniature baggy at the scale after taring and pay the fair $0.40 or whatever after sampling any candies instead of laughing and joking about cannibalism. Maybe she will stick out her tongue and say to bugger off, kind of like an annoying 7 year old. One of the funnier Gerald Earl Gillum bars is "I'm a very bad man" as well as "Patrick Bateman is my spirit animal" amongst other utterances. But Assassin Jeffrey E. Campbell on I Am In It was profound with the "I'm a badman". My unhumble opinion is that capturing at anything beneath 24-bit depth 96.0kHz sampling rate is philosophically unhygienic, disgusting, repulsive, filthy, a crime against humanity, and I mean this unironically no capping trollzing nada... /s sarcasm if Missus Amethyst Amelia Kelly captured Can't Lose at 44.1hKz|48.0kHz we have an issue with temporal quantisation, aliasing, and potentially errors in playback on mediocre DACs Digital To Analogue Converters fundamentally Digitally Distorted and the error terms at 96.0kHz are different from those at 48.0kHz on a rigourously benchmarked ADC Analogue To Digital Converter!

	~Empathy

The Empathy Delusion is midkey about how immeasurable that word "empathy" is often. I am fairly psychopathic and feel minimal "affective empathy". If I were to observe someone crying, I would probably not feel any emotion... would essentially think some physical events relating to lacrimal gland enzymatics and omics were unfolding before me. Working on cognitive empathy e.g. if a young woman asked me, yet another implausible example, if she ought to consider Au Gold digging and cuckoldry, I might inform her that in modern American law it might be a positive expected value mating strategy, but some would view it as immoral, and paternity testing is possibly going to become more standard. Suggest finding a free sperm donor. In the context of general practise for example say we are simulating a patient encounter and 200mg of oral ibuprofen is adequate. But the patient asks directly for an opioid. The doctor is supposed to do the right thing and if the patient leaves a 0|5 review on the internet so be it. Mid ratings are part of this system. If a slightly chubby ~25 year old female wants a represcription for hormonal contraception the right move here is almost certainly to simply write it down without questioning the patient. The onus is on the private individual to monitour downside risks and upside benefits inside our medical system. It is not the doctor's business if the girl enjoys a lifestyle full of drugs and unprotected recreational sexual encounters or has other reasons for seeking out that particular drug. For a young girl not interested in coitus interruptus, one can suggest healthful stainless steel ring or 上海 200 Cu copper. If a patient wants a referral to a psychiatrist, doctors might usually pick one they think highly of. Some of these discussions do immediately come in to potential sex differences. If asked on the notion of a varied diet being healhtful, I might deliver an extremely generic bar like "many dietitians and doctors write that it is." On nose hairs, mention that waxing allegedly has downside risks. On epilating, one can mention that trying it out is not too risky. Reviewing notes on Doctor Mike's YouTube channel. Normally a patient funds their own caffeine measurement and DEXA Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry scan. If asked to give a statement on over the counter supplements in general, I would consider a summary out of Harvard Medical News epidemiology like: Omega-3 seems evidence-based.

	Radical Honesty

"
An idea that especially resonated with me is not being afraid to admit mistakes. Here at Jane Street, mistakes are not seen as a failure or a testament against your capability but as an opportunity to learn and improve. The sooner a mistake is found and shared, the better.
"

Unstrategic. Some examples of me impulsively engaging in it: recently while viewing an old woman's micro house community in suburban Austin, Texas she asked me in a very leading way like "you must have loved living in the Boston city?" To which I instantly replied back "no, I deeply hated it." Or if someone claims the odour emissions from food creates a warm friendly vibrational energy in an indoor space I might instantly shut it down with the old "I strongly disagree. Food odours cause a serious loss of productivity."

	Debates

Might force my kiddos to do oral debates with me if not textual ones over instant messaging. For example we could both prepare and pseudorandomly generate the side so we could discuss the Austin Zoo. They ought to do more to discuss how brutal the market for White Tigers is with murder, inbreeding, and genetic vision|kidney problems. Is it OK for the city of 1000000+ people to be entertained by 100 animals? Do they inspire citizens to purchase exotic pets and effectively grow that industry? I feel as though owning pets is wacky and generally immoral. /s sarcasm Even more strongly I would think not giving a child a micro house is borderline criminal maleficience or whatever but that is just like an n = 1 opinion. Maybe we can volunteer at a zoo or tiger centre to snuggle with the animals. Think this is tricky. Interesting reading on General Practise in the United Kingdom and insurance. Legal insurance for claims of malpractise. It would be nice if my kiddo could get in to academia. Very few entries on the MRCGP Membership of the Royal College of General Practitioners on ACL Association of Computational Linguistics Anthology. My 447 Natural Language Processing readings now include generating strong wrong answers for USMLE United States Medical Licensing Examination multiple choice tasks and some analyses of board certification examinations. If they ace the MCAT Medical College Admission Test then maybe they have optionality to... family medicine? Psychiatry? Outpatient psychiatry and psychology can both be quite beneficial for patients. Are other domains more stressful? Radiology is quite lucrative. During this debate I will mention that many would consider tigers to be unconscious and thus see this as totally OK and having ~0 impact on morality. Present usual American internet centre right lines too as some feel healthcare ought to not be taxpayer funded.

	Let Me Google That For You

Dispute the notion that there is such a thing as "commonsense" knowledge. Could give nose hairs as a task and see what happens. I read papers and came out confused. Objective encephalitis|lungs damage risks and asthmatic perceptions. In law the phrase "reasonable person" could be replaced with "normal person" or perhaps "normie". Unclear to me.

	Cult

I will not assign The Sequences by Eliezer Yudkowsky. Our kiddos will know that some would assert we are in a weird mathematics research cult. And I am casually a de facto member of a New Jersey underwear modele crew. I [sic] worship intelligence and am always feeling unintelligent. Big fan of college dropout Gregory O'Gallagher and maintaining 9% body fat in a nice house. One of my favourite male underwear modeles of all time thus far. Explicitly promotes "naturality" and strength. I regret endorsing Jon Skywalker as he and many young men nowadays die of heart, liver, and kidney problems due to steroid use. Nowadays I try to be more friendly than Greg' so I would say overhead pressing 5 repetitions of 61kg|135lb and running 10000m is meritorious. I would let the viewership know that maintaining a 25 BMI Body Mass Index at 13% Body Fat en route to a nice house is aight - navigating suboptimal situations, hustling and bustling. I feel some degree of warmth towards middle class folk and might myself soon be a serious member of the upper middle class... would still not really claim to deeply understand "affective empathy"... I laughed internally at KinoParody. Fairly confident there might exist some MDs Medical Doctors who can hit 15 repetitions of body weight and a sub-70 minute half Marathon running and would not sneer at normal dudes in fact would maybe say "functional fitness" means something more like hitting 1 repetition of body weight and running a 5000m. Recall that a 1600m is expected of nearly every middle and high schooler. Maybe some general practitioner would even say that 1 repetition of body weight and running a 1600m is OK. Greg' regularly veers from apathetic asocial in to flexturing antisocial zones.

	0 Cooking Unit

Perhaps we ought to construct a "living|dining room" next to the kitchen. Nah, maybe if we were chilling in my parents' house in Lost Creek could just order a number of interesting restaurants with delivery latency of ~15 minutes and eat outside. If I choose to not construct a nice kitchen and am single it might be tricky to find a mate. When I was a kid, the Austin Children's Museum offered a summer cooking course and nowadays it is the Thinkery. Could send them to a more serious summer camp on cooking if desired. French and Italian would be funny. If my kitchen is aight, we can cook every couple weeks or so. Mention that foodie culture is often viewed as a dumb philia. Explore grocery stores and discuss grocery store pasta with sauce versus from scratch. I could maybe do Indian|British Indian Bangladeshi delivery weekly.

	0 Video Games

	~0 ~Television

	A Few Games

	Cinema

They Live, The Pervert's Guide To Cinema|Ideology, James Bond, The Matrix, Lana Wachowski, Aaron Benjamin Sorkin, David Fincher, Science Fiction, Black Mirror, Japanese, Chinese, European, ~0 Animations, ... from old Parenting Notes.

Hoping they will be detail-oriented enough to include notes... Slavoj Žižek... Lana et al. chose Panasonic instead of Sony for Neo's headphones instruments in the opening of The Matrix 1 e.g. which means ~ across all sound. パナソニック ホールディングス株式会社 drop the studio a cool $1000000? Reviewing A Clockwork Orange and the legality of the drugs inside Moloko Plus is humourous. My Balans advertisement could read "Мле́ко+". If someone was showing Annihilation in LASER iMax, we could go to comment on The Blacker The Black.

	"The Talk"

Tell a young man to be gentle, use tonnes of saliva, saliva compatible doll toy if possible, and think about making kiddos with his wife. "Do not waste your energy spilling babies all over the floor daily if twice per week is adequate to quell desirous sensations." Maybe an utterance like this is pointless. Glass cup then water down toilet is OK.

	The Other Talk

"Nikola, your armpits and buttocks have been growing hairy [and stinky] so I will LASER them. If someone whines, then you ought to consider isopropanol and water." Some girls will think body odour is more aesthetic at 0mm LASERed versus 5mm long body hairs. Direct rubbing dreck off works OK efficacy sometimes.

	Anti-Racism

Midkey promote the notion that race is not real. Can discuss scientific racism if desired.

	Rationalist Styles

Recent discussions of the immeasurable on Reddit.com/R/SlateStarCodex... claims about immeasurable and unmeasured "malodour" sometimes look unfalsifiable and thus suspicious from the perspective of a judge. Jokes about "sound" at -100dB or 300dB with respect to the underlying physics of atoms and molecules in air.

	Imitating "Gifted And Talented" And "Above And Beyond" Course Ideas

Could go to an elite public legal session and view seriously upper echelon lawyer orators discussing matters with judges and clientele, forensics, discovery of evidence, interpretations of the mental status of anyone in the room etc. etc. not sure Ural Glanville with comedy rappers are public. If I was discussing physics with say Penn And Teller, implausible, at Gathering 4 Gardner, I would tell them I found Samuel Bankman Fried's mother's defense via Ism Of Autos to be rather uncompelling. Samuel deserves the maximum sentence.

	? Sadly, Pornography Unit

Could toss a 4k of Luna Okko having vanillaish sex and observing gorilas in East Africa or whatever to the kiddos after viewing Black Mirror S01E02 maybe... tell them that some people consider the pornography industry... a mutually benefactory relation between creator and consumer. ? Instead Just Enable Films Of Friends And Deepfake Nudify. Could explain Facebook Reels of torrentable OnlyFans pornography stars like Lucy "Mochi" who might get in the money for $25000000 pre-tax maybe. If I saw her on the streets of Hollywood, would wink dance sing that Marwa Loud pop instead like "bad bad bad bad boy, fan of a bad bad bad bad girl". And then tell her that her serotonin molecule art is unaesthetic and dopamine would be litter. The Beautiful And Lit. The Sony Α Alpha digital camera instrument has objectively solid performance and some nowadays use Apple iPhones. This Meta Reels service regularly links out to Google's YouTube through streamers like Lo3tus. She has an aight voice.

	Perhaps Fully Clothed Images Of Friends|Mathematicians Is Optimal Or Just Fantasising

	Japan Audio Societe High Resolution Audio Input|Output Codec Culte Unit

Inform them that many would view this as a stupid philia called "audiophilia" or "musicophilia". Chronologic by date of release|composition completion. Solid bit of classical. Between 100-500 pieces 1|day around age 20. Task them with writing reviews immediately following listening sessions and casually talk a bit about whatever I know about the artistes involved. Take them to a professional recording studio.

	Sound Check Testing

Might troll my kiddos a bit and get a robotic drop of a tiny sphere on to a surface from a very low height. Discuss the potential implicit measurement of sound. One could also play a quiet noise out of monitours from a distance. See where their detection thresholds truly lies in a quiet bed room. Versus hearing what humans are saying from a mile across a jungle e.g. why people care about the task of orations and parsing human vocals in environments.

	Young Adult Fiction

Might pick some favourites from photographs of a bookshelf at my parents' house. Artemis Fowl and Harry Potter in original British English. See if my kiddos find villains to have redeeming qualities or instead do view me [and my mother] as arseholes. I am somewhat hopeful my kiddos will be nice and friendly. ? The Story Of The World, National Geographic Archives, Chronicles Of Narnia, Artemis Fowl, Harry Potter, Evil Genius, His Dark Materials, Cornelia Funke, Roald Dahl, Carl Hiaasen, Gateway - Frederik George Pohl Junior, ELIZA Effect, Jason Bourne, Limitless, All Involved Pieces For Cinema Studies, ...

	Writing Science Fiction

I might make them try it out. I will not post a mediocre Clear Mirror S01E03 draft from the perspective of a girl on me. Boring stuff. Could capture me tossing off wanking with saliva over footage of penis in vagina sexual intercourse. Reviewing lousy days together with eachother. Moving credence of monogamy in our relationship from 0.9 to 0.999 with technology. Nowadays one could try checking with a polygraph|lie detector. The paranoid centaur Foaly made an eye iris camera used in Artemis Fowl 1. Artemis Fowl is significantly better than Harry Potter. Strong promotion of amorality nay antimorality.

	Hiking

Perhaps we could go on a 6 month long trip to Asia and backpack. 6 months in Europe.

----------

Fantasies

Enumerated In Private Diary
...