Simulating general practise patient encounters is interesting enough. Inspired partially by the recent Scott Alexander Siskind writing on Rationality "Saints". I think I perform OKish on certain tests of empathy and generally do well like score Top 10% on facial emotional recognition tasks. Most of these ought to be trivial for aethernetwork wannabe general practitioners. Eh, maybe I made major errors here. A shrink I met named G was a genuinely nice, friendly person who I believe was attempting to help out his patients for a high price point by suggesting rigourously scientific evidence-based practises and lifestyle interventions. It has been alleged that American practitioners in particular have perverted incentives with respect to overly prescribing drugs instead of promoting preventative care. Studying general practise also involves notions of British law, jurisprudence, prophylaxis, and defensibility. Meditating more on rigourous scientific evidence-based medical practises versus intuitions over in my introductory statistics notes where I will soon review other courses on introductory biologic ethics or whatever.

----------

Say the patient is a young male around 19 and complains of low testosterone with the usual hypogonadism whines. The right move here is probably to promote sobriety and naturality. Reasonable lifestyle interventions.

Say the patient is concerned about irregularity in their period or something. One can again promote sobriety, naturality, and reasonable lifestyle interventions.

Say the patient is a middle aged woman asking about plastic surgery. Even if the doctor thinks this practise is wacky or looks bad, he is supposed to infer that the patient must be perceiving otherwise. One can promote viewing a representative sample of pre and post operational images so that the patient understands the risks and alleged benefits. If the patient returns later and seems pleased one can even kind of feign interest and say something like: I am hoping to help you get your preference. OK maybe something even more explicitly friendly sounding.

Say the patient is a fag or tranny. Basically like most contrived simulated patient interactions, the practitioner is supposed to do the right thing and wait until a patient asks or something, usually keeping unhumble opinions private.

Say the patient is a young person interested in contraception. Doctor Mikhail Varshavski's practise of presenting relatively clear numeric information in a text file is not bad. And then following up discussing whatever the alleged risks are.

Say the patient is old and complains about drug side effects a la "Doctors didn't warn women of 'risky sex' drug urges" from the British Broadcasting Corporation. Well it is an unfortunate situation where the practitioner might feel as though the patient should have Just Done It and read more like a hundred papers on the topic prior to even considering initiating the drug usage or whatever. But the right move to appear like a half empath and preserve Google rating midkey is to say something like "oh I am so sorry, that must be awful, hopefully you can manage dosing with your neurologist."

Say the patient is casually pinning gear and whines about oedema as well as cancer risk. Again, the practitioner ought to keep their Dr. House sneers internal and say nothing negative.

Say the patient is Gerald Earl Gillum and suddenly he starts sobbing because he is dying of liver failure. Yikes. Again, keep laughter internal, and know others might learn a lesson in avoiding alcohol addiction.

Say the patient is Shivani Lam and she digresses says she enjoys photography and hates dudes who rant about microphone performance on the aethernetwork like she perceives audiomusicophilia to be the F-tier hobby essentially. Now say the practitioner is one of those dudes who enjoys that hobby. Say nothing or a simple like "to be sure, some of those dudes have a seriously sick affliction. I know some nice park walks and state parks near here for landscapes yadda yadda yadda".

Say the patient is a young wannabe biologic hacker consulting on 85F versus 81F and eating more food. It is interesting. Can just say 81F sounds a little sharper plausibly.

Say the patient is taking a low dosage of a mood stabiliser to help them cope with their mediocre middle class job and also is struggling because their boss is not a big fan of their armpits skin organ odour. Suggest trying the VaniCream fragrance free antiperspirant product.

Say the patient is concerned about the odour of their buttocks hairs. Inform them that waxing does lead to an increased risk of contracting a sexually transmitted disease via the dermis and one could avoid chairs in public and semipublic spaces due to this.

Say the patient asks casually about mouthwash. One could reply with something like "it would not seem to me as though mouthwash is a scientific evidence-based practise unless one has gingivitis" or something but it may be wiser to go with a flow more like "no comment really, you can ask your dentist, but I would not expect profound health benefits from mouthwash. Not snacking and brushing after meals is probably a better strategy."

Say the patient asks about showering. Do not lie and pretend that daily showering is a scientific evidence-based practise when it is in fact not.

Say the patient asks about cancer testing. Probably just do the usual default modus operandi stuff.

Say the patient asks about C4 Original Watermelon Blow or any over the counter supplement basically indicate it is plausibly unwise and health claims made in that underregulated space tend to be overstated. If asked on Omega-3 can say it is solid. Perhaps say ubiquinone and magnesium are also OK.

Say the patient is an old woman who whines about migraines and her annoying underproductive son who is a sweaty "gorila". Tell her to be friendly to her son because he might get a job soon and buy his dream house. As for the migraines, again the standard endorsements here really are that midkey caffeine is OK, daily light cardiovascular exercise is OK, and also a somewhat intense 90 minute session once per week is OK, going fragrance free is also totally OK, some people mention optimising calcium and other electrolytes.

...

----------

Segment From Clear Pill - Lazyr

Judge Ural
Lazar [Pretending To Be A Prosecutor]: The victim was deeply scared by this interaction and has grown to fear Symere. I rest my case.
Lazar [Pretending To Defend]: Your honour, please try to understand. Symere has been struggling with love... and rage! He feels safer whilst closed carrying. And just had a wee bit of an impulsivity issue there that day when he summoned his weapon. Perhaps in the short films Money Longer and especially Do What I Want it is apparent Symere feels as though he is better. Males are miffed in these mating conflict situations.
Ural: Symere ought to face the maximum penalty and be institutionalised. I find his promotion of riflery in the "comedy rap art poetry" genre to be heinous. This crime is unfunny.

----------

Interview With Jelena Anicic Ilic

[Lazar In Interview At AMD Office Looking Decent]
Jelena: [Looking At Resume] Your GPA of 3.63|4.00 is awful. I got a 4.00|4.00 during my MSEE at UT Austin. It looks lazy, I think we should instantly reject this applicant.
Lazar: I solved a few puzzles. Surely you understand I am a pre eminent radical visionary? Mom!
Jelena: No, I do not. I actually happen to think that Madison Lee acquaintance from CalTech is now probably half competent given her PhD EE.
Lazar: Oh come on mum. I just want a shot to show my genius, standing at the top hold my...
Jelena: Yeah yeah yeah whatever. You have plenty of shots to post up research in mathematical finance and statistics. Please go ahead and do so, and strongly consider getting an actual paying job in the interim. During your PhD, get a 4.00|4.00.

----------

Lazar With His Wifey Trolling Astral Codex Ten Commentariat At Meetup

Well ackchyually, IAmVerySmart, and I read that those graduate student girls from China are hiding a hairsy cat somewhere between their legs near their poopholes. Inside those cats they have eggs which is how they make baby boys. And that is why vaginas are called pussies. Uh huh.