	What does "racism" mean? Part 5/5 - Systemic Racism IS Individual Racism

Yikes I mean this dude interesting stuff on religious belief at Google and whether or not people are trolling, controlling, and trying to police on other people, their linguos, their central nervous systems, perceptions, and belief systems. Uh "racism" would be something I am trying to avoid lately in the sense of people now and in the future classifying my own .txt output as "racist". So like I can be in some epistemic position and observe a ton of bits about inter class mobility in Amerika... and whatever whatever spout the usual Lefty shticks about how like anyone can go make the choices, decisions, and do the day by day actions of building something. And endorse those positions on biased academic hiring right now as well as continued propagation of memes like varied and diverse role models. No I mean "empaths" understand that yeah in fact the Black people have often been fucking harassed by cops their whole life and people have been sneaking them sneak looks and sneak disses too and it is fucking annoying to them so do not be that dude do not create that type of vibe or rhetoric upon to them.

	Religious Discrimination At Google

Right on Google and the Amerikan South re my Notes on the topic of the Deep Learning and Machine Learning over at Google DeepMind in London in the United Kingdom... right man yikes I mean their internal policy is theirs and how the offices handle things is probably all mediated by legitimate oral and written records. Dunno if a coworkers sneers they sneer. I aspire not to I mean I think it reveals some bits about your nervous system on top of perhaps your life history. I do think that the atheists who sneer about like belief in precise effect sizes about say habits of ritualistic prayer are really not quite recognising the depths of the "empathy gap" here and really might want to try "if you say so" or like trusting that the religious person has the better model of their own reality, reality, and their own path journey with their nervous system through it. So like I cannot think that the atheist critic of prayer is really doing this topic epistemic justice by simply sneering for they perhaps fail to comprehend the True gaps.

This comes into really really really hard core nervous system policing and a dude like me sneering and saying that to really feel the True right form of spirituality requires that I personally go execute the Builder action and then lie in there to find out how I feel then... and that like psychosis is bad and is a real half well defined medical state and term and that one ought to ensure to avoid like background malodour chemicals induced mild psychosis.