	A Game-Based Intervention For The Reduction Of Statistical Cognitive Biases

Fascinating fun.

	YouTube

Funny in Google films corpus on e.g. TensorFlow.

	Climate and activism
	Projects I have been involved in since leaving Google!

	Road to 10 Gigatons
	A carbon removal game

	Climate Foundry
	Find climate founders and ideas

	workonclimate.org
	Find people and opportunities to work on climate

	Diamond List
	Investor-nominated climate companies

	Climate Fellows
	Volunteer with climate nonprofits

	Meme for America
	Change politics via memes

Errm.

	Interactive stories
	I used to write interactive stories to teach rational thinking.

	The Wisard's Guide to Statistics
	Statistics for life

Yeah nice I mean the coins super funny as was the story about dating preferences made me chuckle a ton and especially oh I dunno I need a girl who thinks my negative < 0 Expected Value jokes are funny or something um errm I know that many of them do not land... gee I mean to be quite honest made me think that maybe a good solid 90% of girls who did solidly at maths contests would instantly reject me for one reason or another... so my own potential dating pool might be quite small really.

	Adventures in Cognitive Biases
	Bayes Rule in life

Solid one.

	Little Red Riding Hood Does Science
	Happy holidays with science

OK

	Writing
	The Design of Artifacts for Augmenting Intellect
	Tools can make you smarter

I guess transhumanism is OK and more recent Reddit sentiments are that 2022 humans are cyborgs in comparison with 1972 humans e.g. which is factually actually correct of course.

	USA: If you’re stopped by the police
	Know your rights — protect yourself and others

Great message to reinforce to the people.

	Don't spend your life making sheds
	How I finished a 5 year project

OK solid one.

	How to make something people actually want
	Wisdom from Google UI/UX

Nice.

	Wall Street is pitching in for the climate crisis
	Divestment and engagement

OK

	What's going on with climate philanthropy?
	😱 GiveWell, Stripe, and the Big Surprise

OK