"
I spend most of my days working on specific (proprietary) instances of the general problem "design and enact decision procedures that identify market inefficiencies as well as possible, measured in terms of maximizing the ratio (expected value in dollars of trading against the inefficiency) / (amount of human time required to find the inefficiency and execute the trades).

Accordingly, I'm very interested in questions about 

human psychology, especially in the sense of biases that cause large deviations from expected utility maximization
deriving the behavior of systems of many agents from facts about the individual agents, a la macroeconomics and statistical mechanics
statistical learning theory, especially to the extent that one can design empirically effective ad hoc inference algorithms by using analogies to provably correct ones
"

Need to deeply contemplate the meanings of these things the more I learn. I assume this sounds sharp to some people and so that really is sort of the formal task we work on.

	Memory Decay In Human Brains From Options Pricing Theory

Fascinating fun little expository post. On iterated spaced repetition and memming memorising a large corpus. Life is tasks, and it is about facts in brain organs, and there lowkey is no bare base minimum of a comprehension of anything really.

	Bard Of Kickapoo

Wowzerz they also have the technical skill of throwing down and throwing up some poetry in publique. And follow a half interesting set of users on the YouTube platform system.

Odd stuff really yeah yeah yeah to be sure to be awoken and really feeling some agape, it really is True facts in brain organs, and soon finally I will Truly finally get around to reading like 10 books on econometrics, learning kung fu, and really knowing the Truly True True important things rather than all of those cool facts about whom played which tracks at Pukkelpop or whatever via the 1001 Tracklists chain of information. What's In Your Head? What's In Your Wallet? Priceless.