Tarek Mansour Twitter

Luis Usier Twitter

London, England, United Kingdom

Formerly studying football and golf @21stClub is a broken link "This account doesn't exist" error unfortunately.

Luis Usier
Statistics and Football
I'm a data scientist trying to solve football at 21st Club.

I graduated from Harvard with an AB in Statistics in 2015.

Seems fun and interesting enough I know that sports analytics is booming in real life, money, and on the Kaggle. It is a big part of a lot of people's lives and a sector which one can only suppose will continue to grow more and more... huge huge huge component of meaning for some people love love love it I know National Basketball Association is booming here in Amerika.

OK Twitter.

OK website some links out of date and obfuscated information as well. Seems like he is a little bit casual about keeping things en pointe and up to date.

Github is OK

CV-Talk is solid.

magnifyr is interesting enough.

website is cool enough I guess. I really liked Yufei Zhao's frankly the YUFEI ZHAO font looks nice to mine eyes and esthetic enough really.

Really nice web site in my humble opinion lowkey renders well to me off White sans serif but most critical is the graphics and visualisations look tight tight tight better than 538 even and the cross in the "0" looks Good better than the dot in my default Visual Studio Code monospace font typeface I am so deeply mentally accustomed to. The % numbers in the line graphs render nice and large too very readable good solid UI UX in my humble opinion and it functions smoothly in browser to be sure checking out application interface details and nuances as well from the user end perspective.

What precise sorts of contracts are offered and how tight spreads are in this market making business.

OK going in of course we already have read like 5 trillion things about prediction markets in the Rationality space and sphere as this is like hard core canon material.

OK in terms of the hedging shtick eh um errm I guess an off the dome lame example would be like say I care about this upcoming abortion decision and want for abortion to be legal I hedge and like win money if it is illegal OK so there now my position is less risky and volatile based on this upcoming clear discrete binary event.

	Innovating Within The Regulatory Framework

Right this is so critical so important to read up on all of the laws. In each and every nation state in which we operate.

	Making Economic Predictions Freely Available

OK sounds Good.

	A Primer For Diving In To Prediction Markets

OK solid one.

	The Less Risky Trade: Stocks Or Event Contracts?

OK

	The 10 Prediction Market Commandments

OKOKOK sneer.

	Inflation Forecasting: Kalshi Markets Versus Economists

OK

	Why The January 25 Federal Reserve Meeting Is Critical For The Economy

OKOKOK I am sure it is.

	The Only Place To Predict Inflation

OK only. Like what about my shady underground betting club? Prior to our illegal shady poker games with wild strippers we enjoy predicting inflation together but this comes after the Satan worship rituals which itself comes after the prayer to Eliezer Yudkowsky and Robin Hanson like.

	New Supreme Court Markets

Great. See example above.

	Deja Vu? Markets Tumble Amid News Of New COVID Variant

Boo. Or yay.

	Former CFTC Commissioner Brian Quintenz Joins Our Board

OKOKOK Boardy Board.

	Sick Of Inflation? Trade Directly Against It

Right!!!!!

	Notice Of Affiliate Entity Member And Emergency Rule Filing

OK

	The Kalshi Public Beta Is Live

Cool cool I see.

	Kalshi Hires Phil Bogle As Director Of Engineering From Google

OK sounds Good probably very extremely talented and gifted young engineers with beautiful LinkedIns full of pre eminent internship experiences.

	Kalshi Raises $30 Million In Series A Funding Led By Sequoia

Very Good Good Good work executives. Solid backgrounds and LinkedIns.

	Kalshi Wins CFTC Approval For Exchange to Trade Event Contracts

Good Good.

	Financial Technologies Executive Sima Gandhi To Advise Kalshi Team

OK

	Exchange Veteran Timothy McDermott Joins Kalshi Board Of Directors

OK

	Kalshi Hires Uber Business Developent Veteran To Head Strategic Partnerships

OK

	Kalshi And LedgerX Advance To Next Step Of Launching New Event Contracts Exchange

OK seems legit and lit. Maybe I can get internal dope compensation here at this firm if I stop spamming poo poo in public.

	OKOKOK

Good to go actually trade a ton on Kalshi and make some profits as a Trader check it out ideate freely a little bit about the markets and instruments they offer. Contemplate spreads and how Good it might be for the firm long run to offer what sort of tight spread on what sort of underlying credence function to grow the user base etc. incentivise new users. Compare with e.g. PredictIt. In any case study study study more SQL and scraping code web scraping as well as centaur style reading and contemplating, tanking, and actually betting.

	Interview With Luana Lopes Lara From Max Raskin

OKOKOK very very very solid stuff. Did not know how Rational this particular employee set gang gang gang is.

	Thoughts And Commentariat

It is easy for some people to point at a downside like think this is predatory and supports degenerates gambling upon these financial instruments... but there exists perhaps a massive upside a la Hanson et al. just for others in the world and markets to be able to observe the underlying credence P values so like right now on "Harverd Affirmative Action SCOTUS Case" [I prefer all caps all capitalised letters for titles such as this personally] one sees that Buy Yes is at 72 which means perhaps if your credence is >0.72 on that outcome then there you go you can go and buy Yes... I mean I really personally had very little clue or information, still not the domain expert on the history of those text files or the current supreme court and their process but this seems likely that in fact racism here will go away and like... Amerika will cease to emasculate the Greats or whatever.