LOL big boy from the hood at the Jane Street Capital firm.

https://kevinafang.com/

Beautiful beautiful beautiful website and chill projects, he must be a radical visionary genius over there struggling with simple elementary maths and algorithms as a Software Engineer getting compensated like $1000000/year or whatever they pay out to any dude with an MIT Bachelor Of Science In Computer Science degree piece of paper and some internships...

https://medium.com/@thereddking

This is half interesting I mean obviously the dude does not know maths or algorithms but I guess he made some codes appear which might do something and impress someone... not sure like how actually relevant a Facebook Messenger internship is to like highly tightly optimised low latency production trading codes however uh errm...


Apr 24

What to do in Austin, Texas?
I love going back home to Austin. It’s a fantastic city with many things to do. Although I spend most of my time with family, I occasionally have the opportunity to go to my favorite nostalgic places. …

City Living
4 min read

What to do in Austin, Texas? — Four Context
Apr 3

From photos to video diaries: how I remember the past — Four Context
One challenging question I’ve always had was how to remember the past. I know that my memory isn’t the best, and when my friends and I reminisce about the good ol’ days, our accounts begin to differ. Who knows what another few years will make of our memories? We include…

Memories
3 min read

From photos to video diaries: how I remember the past — Four Context
Feb 20

High school hackathons are overrated* — Four Context
As someone who organized HackMIT for multiple years, I wanted to talk about our high school hackathon Blueprint and the weird spot hackathons are for high school students. On the one hand, hackathons provide amazing opportunities for high school students to learn computer science early. However, some students take it…

3 min read

High school hackathons are overrated* — Four Context
Jan 30

How to get an software engineering internship (thought dump) — Four Context
I thought I’d share my thoughts on the lifecycle of an SWE internship. These articles combined give you a summary of the advice that I’ve gotten over the years. Maybe I’ll eventually write about my internships specifically. One of the biggest things I’ve learned is that anyone can become an…

3 min read

Jan 23

Tips on what to do during a software engineering internship. (part 5 — during) — Four Context
In my opinion, a bad internship only occurs if you did not learn something new from the internship. I’ve been pretty lucky at the company’s I’ve interned at and the mentors I got, but I can’t say the same for some of my friends. Unfortunately, poorly executed internships are not…

Internships
4 min read

Jan 16

How to get an software engineering internship (part 4 — interviewing) — Four Context
Once you’ve scheduled the interview, the real show has begun. Solving the problem is a must, but interviews are also a chance for interviewers to understand someone’s thought process and logical reasoning skills. But also, someone’s success could depend on how good at communicating and receptive they are to suggestions. …

Internships
4 min read

How to get an software engineering internship (part 4 — interviewing) — Four Context
Jan 2

How to get an software engineering internship (part 3 — the resume) — Four Context
Resumes are confusing. Most students don’t have much experience going into internships, and somehow you need to fill a page up with qualifications. Given how easy it is to apply online, it is hard to fathom how many resumes each recruiter will review every recruiting cycle. Honestly, I don’t know…

Internships
4 min read

Dec 26, 2021

How to get an software engineering internship (part 2 — practicing) — Four Context
Note: I have never directly interviewed anyone for an internship, but alas, here are my thoughts :). Most coding challenges are pattern recognition tasks that take some time to learn. In my opinion, it is similar to the standardized testing that students use to apply to colleges. As a corollary…

Internships
4 min read

Dec 20, 2021

How to get an software engineering internship (part 1 — applying) — Four Context
Internships can create a toxic environment. Not where people backstab each other for jobs or grades per se, but rather when people view getting an internship as an ‘absolute must,’ and those who don’t have one are less ‘skilled,’ ‘talented,’ or ‘proficient’ in computer science. …

Swe
3 min read

Dec 4, 2021

Why I chose MIT and why should you apply to MIT (30 of 30) — Four Context
All MIT tours ended with a short story on “why I applied to/chose MIT.” It’s probably the most exciting part to listen to for someone on the tour because it shows why people chose (and still enjoy MIT). However, it can be both super informative yet super generic. My college…

MIT
4 min read

Aug 29, 2021

Good advice for MIT students (24 of 30) — Four Context
I’ve sought a lot of advice over the years. Whether it is what class to take or what clubs to join, I’ve asked upperclassmen about many things. Here are some of the advice I’ve gotten and listened to (as well as some of my own). The list is clearly not…

Advice
4 min read

Jul 19, 2021

Building and Launching a Journaling Extension in 2 Months: Lessons Learned
Have you ever had the desire to journal but quit because it was too much effort? Amanda Deng and I always had this issue and attempted to find ways to do so. We tried bullet journaling, diaries (paper and digital), and iPhone apps. However, we could never get into a…

Chrome Extension
6 min read

Obviously like you don't need Rudy's sauce to have fun with well done steak when Iodised salt more than suffices.

"
Hey Kevin I just wanted to leave a message
Just to talk about with you
You have risen to the peaks of a behaviour
And creativity, and its just the beginning Kevin and it's going to be your life by the sounds of it, and I'm just so proud
I just wanted to call and sound like my cheery self when I'm happy
So it's just the beginning you're going to be blown away
And you have your grounding, and yourself and thats so rare
So I'll talk to you soon and
Play on
Ok sweetie I love you bye
Oh yeah by grounding I mean like your intelligence is very grounded
Like it is on the ground well below mine bro skrrrt ESSKEETIT
"