The Ultimate Myth Busters Summary

The Myth Busters tested over 1000 distinct myths in 271 1 hour long episodes spanning 14 years, resulting in a vast amount of information about common myths and interesting phenomena. The following overview attempts to summarise and categorise the results of the entire MythBusters series as succinctly as possible.

Table of Contents
Hidden Dangers
Counterintuitive Phenomena
Idioms
Movie Myths
Movie Cliches
Indiana Jones
James Bond
Star Wars
Television
MacGyver
Implausible Events
Surviving Falls
Crime & Criminals
Escaping Prison
Weather & Natural Phenomena
Physical Science & Conundrums
Household & Everyday
Food & Drink
Alcohol
Toilets and Bodily Functions
Germs & Health
Cars & Driving
Car Crashes
Fuel Efficiency
Aviation & Aircraft
Boats
Sports & Outdoors
Water Activities
Animals
Sharks
Human Behavior & Physiology
Gender Differences
Physical Feats
War & Armaments
Swords & Knives
Guns & Bullets
What is Bulletproof
Explosives & Explosions
Unusual Materials & Uses
Duct Tape
Historical Feats
Ancients
Hidden Dangers

A rock kicked up by a lawnmower can deliver the same force as a bullet.
A pane of plate glass dropped from sufficient height can cut a person in half, but tempered glass will just crush the person.
Spray sunscreens can be flammable due to the propellants.
A railroad tanker car can implode after being steam cleaned and then sealed and cooled, but only if it has prior damage.
A faulty water heater can explode and shoot through the roof of a house, even a two-story house. (The phenomenon can also be used to partially extinguish a house fire or to power a cannon.)
A dog bowl can focus enough sunlight to start a fire.
A high-rise office worker can accidentally run through a plate-glass window and fall to their death.
A heavy insect hitting a motorcycle rider in the right spot could kill the rider.
If a car is driven into water, there is very little time to open the doors before the water pressure becomes too great. The pressure will also prevent the windows from being rolled down, and keys, cell phones, and steel-toed boots will be ineffective at breaking the windows. Once the car interior is flooded, the doors can be opened again.
Under the right circumstances, a taser may ignite someone who has just been pepper sprayed.
If a hunting revolver is held improperly when fired, escaping gases can blow the hunter's fingers off.
A person's tongue can instantly stick to a freezing pole.
The vortex from a passing train will not suck a person into the tracks.
A large number of cigarette lighters in a hot car could lead to a lethal explosion.
A cigarette lighter is not likely to explode in a pocket, in a laundry dryer, or on a car dashboard, but it is likely explode when hit with a golf club or when placed near welding tools.
If a steel cable snaps, it will not cut a person in two.
A lava lamp or a can of beans heated on a stove can explode with lethal force. A glass jug of milk and a can of potted meat will also explode, but less forcefully.
A passing snowplow does not move enough air to flip a car.
If denim pants are soaked in certain farm chemicals, they can spontaneously combust.
Steel toe boots will not amputate someone's toes when a heavy object is dropped on them.
A boom lift cannot throw its operator great distances.
An MRI scanner will not cause tattoos to explode, nor will a radio transmitter.
A falling icicle can kill a person.
Microwaving a jawbreaker can result in an explosion of molten sugar when the jawbreaker is bitten.
Sandblasting a PVC pipe will not build up a lethal static charge.
Using a cell phone while pumping gas will not cause an explosion.
A penny dropped from a skyscraper will not gain enough speed to kill a pedestrian.
Vacuuming up black powder will not cause an explosion.
If two hammers strike each other they will not shatter with lethal force, nor will a hammer that strikes an anvil.
Counterintuitive Phenomena
A household vacuum cleaner can lift a car via suction.
A hovercraft can be used to cross a minefield safely.
The tip of a whip breaks the sound barrier when it cracks.
A piano dropped on a house will not easily fall through the roof.
A ping pong ball can be shot a supersonic speed, but it still won't be a lethal weapon.
Chrome ball-chain can appear to levitate as it falls from a container.
Water falling in front of a speaker can appear to freeze in place on camera.
A vehicle with square wheels can provide a smooth ride if driven fast, but square wheels do not give an advantage in hill climbing.
A sailboat stranded in calm water can move forward using an on-board fan to blow air into its own sail.
A foam cup filled with soda and ice that is thrown from a car could pierce another car's windshield, but it won't necessarily cause lethal injury.
A person can briefly wet their hand and dip it into molten lead without injury.
Two phone books with interlocked pages require on the order of 8,000 pounds of force to be separated.
An airplane can take off from a runway that is moving backwards like a treadmill.
It is possible to make a balloon out of lead.
You can experience a smoother ride on a rough road by driving faster.
It is not easy to light a pool of gasoline using a cigarette.
The area near a fireplace is colder than the rest of the room while a fire is burning.
Idioms
It is easy to punch out of a paper bag.
10 pounds of poop will not fit in a 5-pound bag.
People can easily recognize the backs of their own hands.
Taking candy from a baby is not as easy as it sounds.
People may literally get cold feet when they are scared/timid.
If poop hits a fan it can indeed create a large mess.
You can teach an old dog new tricks.
With an enormous amount of force, it is possible to literally knock someone's socks off.
In a race, it is not literally better to hit the ground running.
You can polish poop.
Shooting fish in a barrel is fairly easy; the shock wave from a bullet can be enough to kill the fish.
A bull in a china shop will actively avoid hitting the shelves.
A rolling stone truly gathers no moss.
Finding a needle in a haystack is difficult, even with modern technology.
Movie Myths
Hollywood movies were a frequent source of myths for the MythBusters.

The scene in Cliffhanger in which the hero leaps to safety from a collapsing rope bridge is not feasible.
In Titanic, Jack may have been able to survive by joining Rose on the floating debris.
Jason Bourne blowing up a house with a gas leak and a magazine in Bourne Supremacy is not feasible.
Shooting at a scuba tank in a shark's mouth will not blow up the shark, as seen in Jaws.
Water can quickly slow a bullet to non-lethal speeds, as seen in Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol.
Realistic face masks like those in the Mission Impossible series may be effective at fooling people.
In Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest, the group of people in a suspended cage could not have swung to side of the ravine, but they may have been able to grab the vines and climb to the top.
The pirates in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl could not have improvised a submarine by holding a rowboat upside down as they walked underwater.
Using a system of mirrors to light an underground passage with sunlight, as seen in The Mummy, is extremely difficult.
It's not feasible for a group of cars to stir up enough dust to blind a surveillance drone, as seen in Body of Lies.
It is not possible to hold a bullet over a fire and discharge it toward an enemy, as seen in Shoot 'Em Up.
A merry-go-round cannot be started spinning by shooting at it with a handgun, as seen in Shoot 'Em Up.
A spear with a shotgun shell on its tip is not a feasible weapon, as seen in The Grey.
A car halfway into an elevator won't be cut in half when the elevator moves, as seen in The Green Hornet.
With some modifications, the front half of a car cut in two can be driven, as seen in The Green Hornet.
Explosives cannot be used to throw a bulldozer off a car without hurting passengers in the car, as seen in The Green Hornet.
A superhuman punch to the hood of a moving SUV will not cause it to somersault, as seen in Hellboy.
In a car crash, a surfboard on the roof of one car will not fly through the windshield of another car, as seen in Lethal Weapon 2.
A carton of milk will not contain the muzzle flash of a pistol, as seen in Kiss the Girls.
A bus could not jump a 50-foot gap and keep driving, as seen in Speed.
The passengers in a city bus do not need to move to one side during a fast, sharp turn to prevent the bus from flipping over, as seen in Speed.
A human head dipped in liquid nitrogen for five seconds will not shatter when hit, as seen in Jason X.
A laser can pop popcorn, but popcorn could not break open a house as seen in Real Genius.
Bullets cannot be curved around an obstacle by swinging a gun, as seen in Wanted.
A C-4 explosion will not knock a golf ball into the hole as seen in Caddyshack.
Liquid nitrogen can be used to cool a pressure-triggered bomb and delay its detonation, as seen in Lethal Weapon 2.
Sea water will not conduct electricity from a car battery as seen in Deep Blue Sea, nor can a person survive an underwater explosion at close distances.
Having a conversation while skydiving is not feasible and the fall wouldn't last as long as depicted in Point Break.
A car that jumps off a ramp will not land with little damage, as see in The Dukes of Hazard.
Shooting a lock with handguns will not break it, as seen in Big Trouble in Little China, but shooting it with shotgun slugs or a high-power rifle could.
It is feasible to equip a car with a discreet seat ejector, as seen in Austin Powers in Goldmember.
A person cannot escape through a floor by shooting a ring around themself, as seen in Underworld.
A sword cannot cut off the blade of another sword, as seen in The Count of Monte Cristo.
A sports car at high speed can skip across a lake, as seen in Cannonball, but launching off a ramp is counterproductive.
A urine-soaked silk shirt will not bend prison bars when wrapped around and twisted, as seen in Shanghai Noon.
A cable attaching the rear axle of a car to a light post will not yank the rear axle out, as seen in American Graffiti.
A car cannot fire a grappling hook around a pole to make a sharp turn, as seen in Batman.
Making a usable candle out of earwax, as seen in Shrek, is not possible.
It is not possible for a person to punch out of a coffin as depicted in Kill Bill and it is only possible to dig out of a shallow grave with an open coffin.
Movie Clichés
A car will not necessarily end up on fire after crashing down a cliff.
The shock wave from an explosion will not throw a person long distances through the air.
A car's fuel tank will not explode if shot with a normal bullet, but it may explode if shot with a tracer round.
A person will not be thrown backwards when struck by a bullet.
During a rooftop chase, jumping into a dumpster may allow survival.
Falling or jumping through glass windows without injury is not realistic.
Quicksand does not exist with the characteristics show in movies.
Carrying a dead body is reasonably easy, but digging a shallow grave is not.
An axe is a more effective weapon against zombies than a gun.
It would be difficult to outrun a large zombie horde, but a barricaded door could stop them.
If a car crashes through a sheet of glass held by workers, the workers will likely be injured.
An SUV will not flip over if hit by an RPG.
A large truck cannot plow through two lanes of traffic and continue undeterred, but it can if it has a steel wedge attached to its front.
Most movie sound effects for punches and explosions are not realistic, but the sound effects for rattle snakes and silenced guns are realistic.
It is not easy to drive a car and shoot a gun while the passenger steers.
A driver and passenger in a car can switch seats while moving at speed, and the passenger can push out an incapacitated driver and continue driving.
A car cannot realistically be driven through a fruit stand or a camper trailer, but it could be driven through a chain link gate or under a semi-trailer.
A person can hold onto the roof or hood of a car while it crashes through cardboard boxes or goes through a car wash, but not while it makes a big turn or zig-zags. If the windows are down, it is easier to hold on to the roof. During a sudden stop, the hood can be held onto but not the bare roof.
Movie gun fights are unrealistically long and running through gunfire does not protect a person from being hit.
Neon signs will not explode in a shower of sparks if struck by a bullet.
It is possible to quickly reload and fire a pistol, as seen in movies.
A person can only hang on to a thin ledge briefly before falling, but it is possible for a single person to rescue someone hanging from a ledge.
A car in free fall will not stay upright.
A person can hang off the landing skid of a helicopter and climb into it.
Indiana Jones
Throwing a wooden pole into the spokes of a motorcycle will not cause it to flip, as seen in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.
Indiana Jones running through a corridor of dart launchers without getting injured in Raiders of the Lost Ark is plausible.
It is plausible to disarm a pistol-wielding opponent using a whip, as seen in Raiders of the Lost Ark.
It may be possible to snag a branch with a whip and swing across a chasm, as seen in Raiders of the Lost Ark.
A person may be able to survive falling through layers of awnings, as seen in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.
Jumping from a plane and floating to earth safely in an inflatable life raft, as seen in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, is not possible.
James Bond
The ballpoint pen bomb seen in Golden Eye could be fatal, but not as powerful as depicted.
Being completely covered in gold paint will not kill a person by skin asphyxiation, as seen in Goldfinger.
A tuxedo worn under a dry suit can still be presentable after a scuba dive, as seen in Goldfinger.
A metal-brimmed hat could not be thrown to knock the head off a statue, as seen in Goldfinger.
A person with metal teeth could not bite through a steel cable, as seen in Moonraker.
Bond's wristwatch with electromagnets could not deflect bullets, as seen in Live and Let Die.
Shooting at a propane tank will not cause it to explode, as seen in Casino Royale.
In Live and Let Die, the speedboat jumping off a ramp and continuing on is feasible.
In Die Another Day, Bond's rocket-powered seat ejector would not be able to right his upside-down car.
Star Wars
Dodging Stormtrooper blaster fire is not feasible.
Luke Skywalker swinging across a chasm using his grappling hook is feasible, as seen in A New Hope.
The Ewoks could crush an AT-ST between two logs if it flies into the trap, as seen in Return of the Jedi.
In The Empire Strikes Back, Han Solo using a Tauntaun carcass (or any large mammal) to keep Luke warm is feasible.
Television
A stick of dynamite dropped in a bucket of paint will not fully paint the room, as seen in Mr. Bean.
A shotgun plugged by a finger will not backfire and injure the shooter, as seen in cartoons.
A line of black powder leaking from a barrel may be able to function like a fuse, as seen in cartoons.
A banana peel on the ground is not guaranteed to make someone fall when they step on it, as seen in cartoons.
A car can drive into a moving semi-trailer via a ramp, as seen in Knight Rider.
The scene in The Simpsons where Homer blocks a wrecking ball with his body has some feasibility.
The crab pots used on Deadliest Catch are not indestructible.
A manhole cover could potentially be launched by an explosion to disable a vehicle, as seen in The A-Team.
The improvised cannon made of a log in The A-Team is not feasible.
A mattress floating on water is not effective at cushioning a three-story fall, as seen in Burn Notice.
In Breaking Bad, Walt's machine gun booby trap could work as depicted, but hydrofluoric acid will not fully decompose a body and eat through a bathtub, and Mercury fulminate will not explode if thrown on the floor.
MacGyver
A burnt-out fuse can be repaired with tin foil, as shown in MacGyver.
MacGyver could have stopped an acid leak with a chocolate bar.
A bomb in a truck filled with cement will damage the truck and injure bystanders, not be fully contained as shown in MacGyver.
The makeshift ultralight airplane in MacGyver is not feasible.
Spraying a light bulb with liquid from a spray bottle can break it, as shown in MacGyver.
It may be possible to blow open a lock with black powder from revolver cartridges, but it is not as easy as shown in MacGyver.
Implausible Events
A limousine balanced on the edge of a cliff will not topple if a bird lands on it.
A soldier who strapped jet-assisted take-off (JATO) rockets to his car could not have soared over a mile through the air.
A person in a lawn chair can be lifted by weather balloons and a child can be lifted by a huge number of party balloons.
Transforming a broken-down car into a working motorcycle with only basic hand tools is not feasible.
A drum filled with methanol can't be fitted with wheels and ignited to propel itself at high speed.
If a truck filled with bottled wine catches fire, the corks will blow out and sound like a machine gun.
An arrow with dynamite attached will not split a tree down the middle when it explodes.
Sliding down a supersized water slide and launching large distances into a kiddie pool is not feasible.
A stick of dynamite thrown under a car on a frozen lake will not cause the car to sink.
If a person is dragged by a horse, their jeans will not catch fire.
A person wearing jeans cannot be killed from the jeans shrinking excessively in a hot bath.
A car airbag cannot launch a toothpick into a person's skull.
A trombonist could not have launched his mute with a firecracker, knocking over the conductor and blowing open his trombone.
A Corvette cannot act as a ramp enabling another car to do a barrel roll.
It is not possible for a person to catch a bullet with their teeth.
Illegal immigrants could not be launched over the U.S. border using a giant slingshot.
A woman could not have been impregnated by a bullet which had also hit a man's groin during the American Civil War.
Overusing "bug bombs" can cause a house to explode.
The Red Cross does not implant microchips in your bloodstream when you donate blood.
Pyramid power, primary perception, and psionic helmets have no basis in science. (These were the few paranormal topics to appear in the series; the MythBusters later avoided them.)
A scuba diver cannot be sucked up by a firefighting helicopter and dumped onto a fire.
A certain series of Rube Goldberg-like accidents involving a barrel of bricks is not realistic.
Launching a human with water bottle rockets is not feasible.
An umbrella that shoots poison capsules could be a lethal weapon.
Surviving Falls
Falling out of an airplane is not survivable if a bomb explodes below you.
A person cannot survive a free-falling elevator by jumping at the last moment before it hits the ground.
A high fall over water cannot be survived by throwing a hammer to break the surface tension of the water.
It is not feasible to improvise a parachute from materials in a hotel room.
A person falling from a building cannot survive by holding a large sheet of plywood above their head or by opening an umbrella.
An inflatable Zorb ball is not effective at cushioning a fall.
A person wrapped in bubble wrap will not survive a significant fall.
A skydiver could not have fallen onto a seesaw and safely launched a child to the top of a seven-story building.
Crime & Criminals
Driving at night without headlights is not an effective way to smuggle contraband.
A car door cannot be unlocked using a tennis ball to force air into the lock.
Some optical fingerprint readers can be fooled by a fingerprint etched in latex, a fingerprint in ballistics gel, and a paper copy that has been licked.
A heat detector can be fooled using a sheet of glass or a fire proximity suit. It will not be fooled by cooling one's body or heating the room, by being covered in mud, or by wearing a diving suit.
A motion detector can be fooled by moving very slowing or by holding a bed sheet in front of you, but not by wearing heavily-padded clothing.
Laser beam detectors cannot be dodged using night vision goggles or cosmetic powder to reveal them, or by pointing another laser at the detector.
A thief may be able to fill a safe with water and open it using an explosive, without damaging the contents.
A police speed radar/lidar cannot be beaten by: jingling a set of keys, hanging a disco ball or CDs from the rear-view mirror, covering hubcaps with foil, lining the license plate with LEDs, using a magnetron, releasing tin foil as chaff, or painting the car matte black.
Climbing an air duct using magnets or suction cups is possible, but too noisy to be useful. Suction cups could also be used to climb a building.
Glass cannot be silently cut open by gently cutting a circle and removing it with a suction cup, but drilling a hole does work without too much noise.
A pressure sensor under an item could be carefully squeezed with knife and then held down with tape while the item is taken.
A modern safe cannot be cracked using a stethoscope, but it could be cracked by drilling a hole and visually aligning the tumblers.
Escaping Prison
Escaping from Alcatraz using rafts made from rain ponchos is feasible.
It could be possible, over years, to corrode prison bars using salsa.
Steel prison bars can be cut using dental floss and toothpaste, but it takes a very long time.
Dissolving a stockpile of antacid tablets to generate pressure will not help someone bust out of jail.
A prisoner could not have escaped alive by loading ball-and-chain into a cannon and firing himself over the prison wall.
A horse could not pull the bars out a prison window.
A stick of dynamite would more likely kill a prisoner than help the prisoner escape.
A prison inmate may be able to make a lethal crossbow out of newspaper.
Weather & Natural Phenomena
A person will stay drier by running in the rain than by walking.
Standing in a doorway is not the safest thing to do in an earthquake; rather: "drop, cover, and hold on."
An extreme hail storm may be able to sink a boat.
The equinoxes are not the only days you can balance an egg on its end.
Specially built vehicles can withstand tornadoes and it is possible to build a portable tornado shelter.
A tornado can propel window glass with enough speed to decapitate a person.
It is not best to leave windows open during a hurricane.
Metal body piercings do not attract lighting, nor do metal-cleated shoes.
An avalanche will not be caused by a person yodeling, the sound of whip cracking, or people firing small guns at the mountain.
A piece of straw will not penetrate through a palm tree if propelled by hurricane-force winds.
Wind alone cannot blow the feathers off a chicken.
A tidal whirlpool cannot sink a container ship or fishing trawler, but it could sink a person.
During a lightning storm, a person can be electrocuted by talking on a corded phone and possibly by taking a shower.
Lightning striking a kite has fatal results; Benjamin Franklin may have experimented with a kite but he probably was not struck by lightning.
Physical Sciences & Conundrums
A truck carrying birds will not be lighter if the birds are flying instead of standing.
A bullet fired into the surface of a frozen lake can spin like a top after impact.
Swimming in bubbling water may be impossible.
Folding a piece of paper in half more than seven times is possible.
A ball thrown backwards from a moving vehicle, at the same speed as the vehicle, will fall straight down.
A lock becomes easier to break when frozen with liquid nitrogen.
Objects of different mass fall at the same rate.
A bullet fired horizontally will land at the same time as a bullet dropped from the same height.
Diamonds cannot be fabricated by combining chemicals in a pressure cooker, by putting charcoal and peanut butter in a microwave, or by cooling molten graphite and iron. Diamonds can be made, however, by compressing graphite with a huge amount of explosives.
Pykrete is stronger than ice and it can be used to make a functional, but impractical, boat.
Dropping alkali metals into water will not create huge explosions, and sodium and water will not blow a hole in a wall.
The tensioned strings in a burning piano will not pop.
A small car can be lifted into the air by fire hoses.
Greenhouse gases do increase the amount of heat absorbed by air.
Cows emit greenhouse gases and cow manure can be used to generate electricity.
An RFID tag will not explode if placed inside an MRI scanner.
Sound waves can put out a flame, but an unamplified human voice cannot.
Anti-gravity is not possible.
A pool of dense gas can make a tin foil boat appear to float in the air.
A compressed air cylinder can blast itself through a concrete wall, but a boat cannot be effectively powered by one.
A car sound system cannot quickly shatter all the windows; when one window breaks the pressure has a path to escape.
A black car will heat up faster than a white one.
It is possible to get free energy using a coil of wire under a power line, but getting enough to power a house is not practical.
A train will not be derailed if coins are placed on the tracks.
Metronomes will synchronize on a sliding platform, but an excessive number will not.
Soldiers marching on a bridge could cause a harmonic oscillation resulting in a collapse, but it is very unlikely.
A frozen chicken penetrates aircraft and train windshields better than a thawed one.
A glass of water can superheat in a microwave and boil over dangerously when removed.
Walking over hot coals is possible because ash forms an insulating layer and because the contact time is brief.
If thrown into a fire, a fire extinguisher can explode and put the fire out, depending on the type of fire extinguisher.
Making a stun gun that delivers a shock over a stream of water is possible but highly impractical.
An oversized Newton's cradle using wrecking balls will not work.
Fire can be started by a bullet fired from a musket, by polishing a soda can with chocolate, by rubbing two sticks together, by a car battery and steel wool, or by focusing light with ice.
Sounds cannot be recovered from the grooves of old pottery.
Water that has been microwaved (and cooled) is not harmful to plants.
Falling from great heights onto water can be highly destructive, but it still is not as bad as falling onto pavement.
Household & Everyday
A huge ball made of Legos will break apart when it is rolled downhill.
A needle thrown at glass cannot pierce the glass without shattering it.
A whole coconut can be mailed without packaging.
A strike-anywhere match can be lit by a bullet fired from a pistol.
The heads of many matches can be collected to create a large fireball.
Pouring water on a grease fire will cause a large fireball, but a very large quantity of water can put a grease fire out.
A single grocery line leading to multiple checkouts is slower but fairer than multiple lines.
An MP3 player cannot be charged by simply plugging it into an onion.
A lock can be picked using filaments from a light bulb.
A car door cannot be unlocked by transmitting the keyless entry signal through a cell phone call.
A frozen can of shaving cream will not fill up a car if cut open and thawed.
A working speaker cannot be improvised from a paper plate, a penny, a mini jack, and tin foil.
Leaving on a light is not more efficient than turning it off and back on.
To keep needles from falling out a Christmas tree, Viagra, bleach, and hairspray may work, but urethane, pain reliever medicine, soda, and fertilizer will not.
The heat from Christmas lights will not ignite a Christmas tree.
Performing a 360° loop on a standard swing set is not possible under one's own power, but it is possible on a rigid-arm swing set.
A shop vacuum will not act like a jet engine if it sucks up gasoline.
A clothed snowman melts slower than a naked one.
A regular house fan cannot cause decapitation.
Noise may help plants grow.
An ordinary playing card cannot be thrown with enough power to be lethal.
Dropping an electrical appliance into a bath can be deadly, but modern GFCI devices prevent this.
A makeshift hovercraft can be built for under $500.
A CD can shatter if spun too fast, but CD-ROMs do not spin fast enough to cause this.
A household washing machine does not have the strength to spin a flailing man.
Microwaving metal will not blow up the microwave.
Superglue can be used to attach a furniture to a ceiling, creating the illusion of an upside-down room.
Food & Drink
Eating poppy seeds can lead to a positive drug test for opioids.
It may be possible to liquefy the inside of a whole fruit with an explosion and drink from it with a straw.
It is possible to cook a meal using a car's engine compartment.
The tryptophan in turkey is not what makes people tired.
Not everything tastes like chicken; it is easy to differentiate chicken from other meats.
You cannot pop popcorn instantly with an explosion, and popping popcorn with a pressure vessel is not the fasted method due to the required preparation.
It is not possible to swallow a spoonful of ground cinnamon without drinking water.
A beef steak can be tenderized using explosives, a cannon, or a laundry dryer.
Swallowing both Mentos and Diet Coke will not make a person's stomach explode, nor will swallowing too much Pop Rocks and soda.
A frozen turkey can crush your foot if dropped, and possibly your dog too.
A turkey cannot be cooked using a microwave radio or a radar antenna.
A cereal box does not have more nutritional value than the cereal within it.
Food cannot be launched in the air through ingredients and flames and land fully cooked.
Toast is not inherently more likely to land buttered-side down, but it could be more likely to when pushed from the height of a standard table.
Dropping a frozen turkey into a deep fryer is very dangerous, but the turkey will not explode.
A tin of biscuit dough can explode in a hot car, but aerosol spray and cola cans will not.
Cola can be used as a cleaning agent to remove bloodstains or clean chrome, battery terminals, or a penny. Cola will not clean rust or greasy/oily things. It will not dissolve a steak or a tooth overnight and it will not kill sperm.
A six-pack of beer or soda will not be quickly cooled by burying it in sand and igniting gasoline on top of it; salty ice water is the most practical solution.
Pain from eating hot peppers can be relieved with milk, but not with water, beer, tequila, toothpaste, petroleum jelly, or wasabi.
Alcohol
Placing a silver spoon in a bottle of champagne will not keep it bubblier.
Beating a breathalyzer test is not possible by eating an onion, eating breath mints, drinking mouthwash, or placing a penny in the mouth.
A moonshine still can malfunction and explode.
A modern car can run on moonshine.
Filtering vodka through a charcoal filter will not improve its quality.
Vodka will not cure poison oak or kill bees but it can help relieve the pain of a jellyfish sting, remove a bandage, clean a bathroom, remove odors from clothes and feet, and remedy bad breath.
Rum is not better at cleaning clothes than detergent.
Beer can instantly freeze solid after being removed from a freezer and given a shock.
Drinking brandy may make a person trapped in the cold feel warmer, but it will actually make them die sooner.
Alcohol does make people look more attractive.
A hangover caused by mixing beer and liquor is not worse than one caused by beer alone.
Toilets and Bodily Functions
A fart cannot be seen on an infrared camera.
A cherry bomb flushed down a toilet will not send water shooting out of all the neighboring toilets.
Pouring gasoline down a toilet and igniting it will not cause an explosion.
Doing the "potty dance" may help alleviate the urge to urinate.
Flatulence can be induced by consuming beans or soft drinks, but not beef.
Pretty girls do pass gas.
It is not possible for a person to fart so much that they suffocate from the gases.
A fart can be lit on fire.
A match can be lit to mask the smell of a fart, but it does not actually burn the odorous gases.
Lighting a cigarette in a porta-potty will not cause an explosion.
An inaudible "brown note" will not make a person lose control of their bowels.
During winter, a stream of urine will not freeze midair.
Urinating on an electric fence can cause electrocution, but urinating on the third rail of a train track will not.
Germs & Health
"Double dipping" food items is not as bad as putting all of the dip in your mouth.
The "five second rule" is not valid when food is dropped on the floor.
Many objects that people touch every day are dirtier than a toilet seat, including cash, keyboards, and kitchen sponges. In fact, a toilet seat may be one of the cleanest surfaces in a house.
Toothbrushes are generally contaminated with fecal coliform, but not to a dangerous degree.
Hot-air hand dryers are less sanitary than paper towels.
In public restrooms, the stall closest to the door is used the least and stays the cleanest.
Covering a sneeze with your inner elbow is more sanitary than using your hand or a handkerchief.
A person's eyes will not fly out if they sneeze with their eyes open.
A sneeze does not travel at 100 mph (160 km/h); it's more like 37 mph (60 km/h).
Healthy people cannot easily avoid germs if a sick person makes no effort to contain them.
The top of a soda can is not likely to be contaminated with rat urine, and dangerous viruses could not be transmitted that way.
A defibrillator may burn someone who is wearing an underwire bra or a nipple piercing, but it is not likely. A defibrillator will not make a nitroglycerin chest patch explode.
Being hit on the head with an empty beer bottle will not cause more damage than being hit by a full bottle.
A person buried up to their neck in wet sand will not be able to escape without aid.
Cars & Driving
Drifting is not the fastest way to race through corners, not even on dirt roads.
It is possible, but difficult, to drift into a parallel parking space.
It is possible to drive in reverse at high speeds.
One car braking in traffic can cause a ripple effect that persists.
Changing lanes frequently in traffic can save you time.
Roundabouts are more efficient than four-way stops.
It is not difficult to push one moving car off the road with another.
During a car chase, the fleeing car could escape by deploying a smokescreen or an oil slick.
A hood-mounted machine gun is an effective weapon in a car chase.
Hollow road spikes are effective at stopping a car, but solid spikes are not reliable because they can stick in the tires.
It is quite difficult to drive a car balanced on two wheels.
Driving in heels or snow boots does not significantly impair a driver.
Driving with a full bladder is not as dangerous as driving drunk.
Two cars stuck together nose-to-nose can drive in a straight line and spin 180°, but they can't go around a 90° turn.
A burst of flame can be used to re-seat a tire on its rim, but another method is still needed to inflate the tire.
An out-of-control car can be safely stopped by pulling in front of it with another car and slowing down.
A car with a flat tire can temporarily be driven on the bare rim, or the wheel can be replaced by a manhole cover, stuffed with straw, or replaced with a carved log.
Older sports cars were not so badly designed that they are more aerodynamic if the body is turned backward.
Driving while tired or driving while using a cell phone can be more dangerous than driving under the influence of alcohol.
Using a hands-free cell phone while driving is just as dangerous as holding the phone.
A motorcycle cannot yank the cloth off a banquet table without disturbing the place settings.
Driving a convertible through rain at high speed may prevent the driver from getting wet.
A long, fast burnout will not cause a tire to catch fire.
Two semi trucks that collide head-on will not stay fused together and conceal another car crushed between them.
A blind person can drive safely by following instructions from a passenger.
Electric cars are not more sluggish than gasoline cars.
A speed camera cannot be beaten by a reflective license plate cover, a magnified cover, a crystallized cover, a commercial spray, plastic wrap, or hair spray. It could be beaten by an extraordinarily fast car.
Shifting into reverse will not stop a runaway car.
Driving backwards does not improve traction on an icy road.
Bracing a windshield with your hand will not keep it from shattering when struck.
An engine cannot run on gunpowder alone.
Used cooking oil can be used as fuel in a diesel engine.
A toy car can beat a full-size car in a short, unpowered downhill race, but it will fall behind in a longer race.
A broken drive shaft dragging on the ground will not cause a car to pole vault end-over-end if it strikes a pothole.
A car's engine will not be destroyed if sugar or drain cleaner are put in the fuel tank, if a coin falls in the carburetor, or if the tailpipe is plugged. It could be destroyed if bleach is put in the fuel tank or oil tank.
A cracked egg can plug a radiator leak and cola can be used as an emergency coolant.
Adding mothballs to a car's fuel tank may increase its horsepower.
A car can be destroyed by a decomposing body and the smell may never go away, but a buyer could still be found.
Car Crashes
Two cars crashing into each other will each experience the same force as a single car hitting a wall.
A car passenger seated between two heavyset people will not be protected in a crash.
In a car crash, a large number of party balloons will not act similarly to an airbag.
In a car fire, the bumper can explode and present a danger, but only at short range.
Neither carburetor magnets nor acetone in the gas tank will improve a car's fuel efficiency.
A tissue box in the back seat of a car will not become a deadly projectile during a crash.
A semi truck's tires can explode with lethal force.
During a car crash, an airbag will not rip off the driver's thumbs.
Spray-on truck bed liner resin can withstand a dog bite and even an explosion, but it will not significantly protect a car during a crash.
A car could not be split in half with a snowplow while the occupants remain unharmed.
Fuel Efficiency
Driving with the windows down is more fuel-efficient at slow speeds; above roughly 50 mph (80 km/h), air conditioning becomes more efficient.
Driving a route with only right-hand turns more efficient than driving a normal route.
Hypermiling techniques can significantly improve, but not double, fuel efficiency.
Although they are more fuel-efficient, motorcycles emit more air pollution than cars.
Higher-than-normal tire pressure improves fuel efficiency.
A driver will use more fuel when angry.
Although dangerous and often illegal, cars and bicyclists can draft a semi truck to improve efficiency.
It is not more fuel-efficient to drive a pick-up truck with the tailgate down. A plastic mesh tailgate is the most efficient configuration.
A dirty car is not more fuel-efficient a clean one, but a car with dimples like a golf ball could be more fuel-efficient than a smooth one.
Aviation & Aircraft
Boarding an airplane from back-to-front is the slowest method and there are several better alternatives.
Playing tennis on the wing of a slow-flying airplane is possible.
Airplanes can save fuel by flying in a V-formation like birds.
A person could improvise an aircraft powered by many fireworks, but it would be extremely unsafe.
If the contents of an airplane toilet leak, they can freeze and cause damage by falling to the ground.
Getting stuck on an airline vacuum toilet is not possible.
The U-2 spy plane is challenging to operate, but fun to ride in.
A large multirotor drone could cause serious injury with its propellers.
The sonic boom from a fighter jet will only break glass if it occurs at a very low altitude.
An untrained person could be instructed to successfully land an airplane over the radio.
The jet wash from a Boeing 747 can flip a taxi, a school bus, and a small plane.
Making a glider from concrete is possible but impractical.
Placing a stamp on the rotor of a helicopter will not unbalance the rotors and cause a crash.
A life raft filled with helium cannot be flown.
Cell phones were not banned on planes to sell more in-flight phone calls.
For short journeys, driving can be faster than flying.
The empennage of a plane can be shredded by another plane's propeller.
If a bullet is fired through the fuselage of airplane, the plane will not explosively decompress.
A person strapped into the rear stewardess seat may be able to survive the destruction of an airplane in flight.
Building an inexpensive jet pack from online plans is not feasible.
Hair gel will not explode and decapitate a pilot in an oxygen-rich fighter jet cockpit.
Jumping with an inflatable escape slide could make a fall from an airplane survivable, but it wouldn't be possible to inflate it and get strapped in while the plane is moving.
The airplane brace position is effective and was not deviously designed by the airline industry to kill passengers.
Breast implants will not explode on an airplane, nor will an inflatable bra.
Boats
A huge number of ping pong balls can be used to raise a sunken ship.
A boat will not be split in half if it hits a channel marker head-on.
A ginger pill or a placebo can prevent seasickness, but cinnamon, magnets, and electroshock treatments will not.
A large explosion cannot lift a boat out of the water without also destroying it.
The wake from a sharply turning jet boat can put out a fire on another boat.
A fisherman could be pulled to the bottom of the sea if his leg is caught in a rope.
Slowing a fall by sticking a knife into a boat's sail is not effective.
A boat can be driven with its trailer still attached.
A sinking boat will not create enough suction to pull someone underwater.
Sports & Outdoors
A corked baseball bat will not hit a baseball farther than a normal bat.
A baseball pitcher's fastball cannot lift itself higher into the air.
In baseball, it is faster to slide into bases that can't be overrun.
Practicing golf in a video game will not make you better at playing actual golf.
Hitting golf balls through the foliage of a tree is not easier than going around it.
A racecar does not generate enough downforce/suction to lift a manhole cover.
A racecar driver may lose 10 pounds of water weight over a 3-hour race.
A fish cannot pull out a fishing line so fast that the reel catches on fire.
The black paint worn by baseball players could reduce glare from the sun.
Escaping a ski lift by sliding down the cable using a pair of pants does not work.
One skydiver can catch up to another by streamlining their body.
A baseball's stitches will not tear off, even if the ball is thrown and hit with super-human strength.
An NFL football filled with helium will not fly farther than one filled with regular air.
Jimmy Hoffa was not buried in the Giants Stadium.
Water Activities
It is possible to ride a bike underwater.
A bicycle can be modified to operate on the surface of water relatively easily.
It is not feasible to bob for apples while bungee jumping.
A fast-moving motorcycle can ride across the surface of a lake.
Surfing on still water with rockets is only possible with a highly-modified surf board.
The body of a pre-SCUBA diver could be pushed into the helmet if the surface air supply failed.
A harpoon gun is accurate from a distance of 100 feet (30 m).
Water skiing behind a cruise ship is possible, and so is skiing behind a rowing team.
It is not feasible to stay underwater by breathing air from a car tire.
Running across the surface of water is not possible.
A person could not surf on a wave generated by explosives.
Animals
It is not possible to herd cats.
Cats are not deterred by lion feces, aluminum foil, or water bottles.
Snakes are not deterred by cat litter, mothballs, hemp rope, or cayenne pepper.
Bears are deterred by cayenne pepper, but not by ammonia.
Hanging bags of water from the ceiling will not repel flies.
It is possible to catch a greased pig.
One thousand honey bees cannot lift a laptop.
Trained bloodhounds are amazingly effective and they will not be fooled by a wide array of deceptions and concealments.
Law-enforcement "sniffer dogs" will not be fooled by covering contraband with food or masking agents, nor will they or their handler be easily distracted.
A person may be able to get past a guard dog by travelling inside a barrel or metal sphere or by distracting it with food, a robotic cat, or certain types of urine.
Goats can be startled into fainting.
Cockroaches cannot survive a nuclear blast.
Elephants may be afraid of mice; they will avoid one, but not panic.
The color red does not make a bull charge.
Crocodiles won't chase someone; they are ambush predators.
A dog's mouth has less bacteria than a human's.
The smell of skunk musk cannot be removed with beer or a douche, but tomato juice and commercial cleaners may help and a custom mixture with hydrogen peroxide is the most effective.
Daddy longlegs spiders do not have the most potent venom of all spiders, but their bite can pierce human skin.
A goldfish's memory is not limited to three seconds.
Dog urine does not react with bleach to cause an explosion.
A fertilized octopus egg could not gestate after being swallowed by a woman.
A wallet made of electric eel skin will not ruin a credit card's magnetic strip.
A duck's quack does echo.
Sharks
The MythBusters often tested shark-related myths as part of "Shark Week" on Discovery Channel.

Sharks are repelled by the scent of a dead shark and by dolphins.
Sharks are not repelled by the sound of orca whales or by chili peppers.
Some sharks are deterred by magnets, but not all species and not when there is food present.
Playing dead can help prevent at shark attack. Also punching a shark in the nose, eyes, and gills may help deter an attack, and it is feasible to find and gouge a shark's eyes in the frenzy of an attack.
Sharks are not attracted to a dog in the water but they are attracted to the sound of a flapping fish and flashlights at night.
Most sharks won't asphyxiate if they stop moving.
Sharks cannot detect a single drop of blood at the opposite end of a swimming pool.
Shark skin can be used as sandpaper.
Sharks can see food above the surface of water and will attack it.
Sharks do not sense low frequency sounds but they do sense electromagnetic fields.
A great white shark has the strength to pull flotation barrels underwater but not to hold them there. It does not have the strength to pull a boat backwards rapidly. It does have the strength to break a lure made of piano wire.
A great white shark can potentially penetrate a dive cage and punch a hole in a boat.
A knight's suit of armor seems to attract sharks, so it is not a suitable as protection.
Human Behavior & Physiology
People don't get dumber when in the presence of the opposite gender.
Men are not more attracted to blonde women.
Waitresses with larger breasts receiver higher tips.
Pheromone sprays are not effective for humans.
Women are more attracted to financially successful men.
Taking 20-minute naps can double performance during extended sleep deprivation.
In a Monte Hall Problem, most people don't change their decision, even though they should.
Slapping someone in the face does help make them more alert.
Humans use more than 10% of their brains.
Women and redheads appear to have higher pain tolerance than others and cursing aloud can increase a person's pain tolerance.
Humans may give off a scent when scared.
Wearing an eyepatch over one eye does help preserve night vision.
Dipping a sleeping person's hand into warm water will not cause them to urinate.
Exercising vigorously and getting slapped in the face may help a drunk person sober up, but drinking coffee or ice water will not.
Cabin fever appears to be a real phenomenon.
It may be possible to fool a lie detector test by controlling thoughts or by self-inflicting pain.
Hypnosis will not make someone act against their will, but it can help them remember things. Self-hypnosis will not cure seasickness, change one's eye color, or eliminate the fear of bees.
There is not an inaudible sound that makes people feel uneasy.
Yawning could be contagious.
A tooth filling will not pick up radio signals.
Tanning too often will not cook a person's internal organs.
Mind control of another person is not possible via subliminal sounds or magnetic fields.
Gender Differences
Men are not inherently better at throwing a ball than women, but they do generally receive more training.
Women are better at multitasking, reading emotions based on people's eyes, and possibly observing details.
Men are better at driving and packing for a road trip.
Men and women do the follow equally well: parallel parking, following maps, and cooking on a grill.
Women break the speed limit more often than men do.
Men ask for directions sooner than women do.
Physical Feats
A fit person may be able to carry large amounts of weapons and supplies, as seen in FPS video games.
A human cannot outrun a race car in a 30-foot race.
It is not possible to walk, swim, or drive in a straight line when blindfolded.
It may be possible to swim through syrup as quickly as through water.
Surviving for long periods when buried alive is not possible.
Using grappling hooks to quickly scale a wall is not feasible.
A punch will not leave a scar that matches the imprint on a ring.
A person singing at the right tone can break a wine glass.
An average man can break through a wooden doorframe using his own power.
A ninja cannot catch an arrow in mid-flight, catch a sword between his palms, slap a bullet out of the air, or run across water.
A ninja can deflect and arrow with a sword and may be able to knock out a person with a one-inch punch and hit a target with a blowgun from underwater.
War & Armaments
It is not difficult to hold a hand grenade for a long time after the pin has been removed.
Lying flat on the ground will not protect a person from grenade shrapnel.
A grenade can be neutralized by placing it in a bucket of water or by covering it with a body, but not by throwing it inside a refrigerator.
It is not feasible to shoot a handgun at an oncoming RPG and escape unharmed, but it may be possible to shoot a hand grenade in midair and render it harmless.
It may be possible to dodge a bullet from a sniper rife that is over 500 yards (457 m) away if you see the muzzle flash, but a sniper could make sure you don't see the flash.
Building battlefield trenches with sharp corners helps reduce the spread of a shock wave.
Operation Valkyrie would not have been successful if Hitler's meeting remained underground.
The wooden shrapnel from a cannonball impact does not cause more damage than the cannonball itself.
Archers on a galloping horse will have more powerful arrow shots, but not double the power of when standing still.
A form of torture in which bamboo slowly grows through a person's body is feasible.
Chinese water torture could drive someone insane.
A sniper could have shot straight through another sniper's scope during the Vietnam War.
A wooden arrow cannot be fully split in half by a direct hit in the tail from another arrow.
A normal fire extinguisher can't hold off an attack from a flamethrower.
Swords & Knives
At close quarters, a fighter with a knife can defeat one with a gun.
Slicing through real fruit with a sword is not as easy as it seems in the game Fruit Ninja.
Having higher ground in a sword fight is not a significant advantage.
Attacking first in a sword fight is not a disadvantage.
A hardcover book is effective at stopping a sword thrust, while coins will just deflect the thrust.
Cutting a machine gun in two with a sword is not possible.
Guns & Bullets
A bullet fired straight up can still be lethal when it falls to the ground.
It is possible to shoot a bullet through a wall and hit a moving target.
A rifle with a bent barrel can still fire lethally.
A rifle with a boresight left in the barrel could backfire and explode.
Guns work underwater and would also work in the vacuum of space.
A gun that is dropped in a deep fryer will discharge.
A pistol dropped down a flight of stairs is not likely to discharge.
A nail gun is not an effective weapon.
Equally-matched opponents in a fast draw gunfight would likely kill each other.
Silver bullets don't work well, but lead bullets can be engraved and still fire accurately.
A bullet can't be fired at a road surface to ricochet up through a car's floorboard.
The standard two-handed stance is the best way to hold a gun.
It is more accurate to fire two guns simultaneously than to alternate left- and right-hand shots in a two-handed stance.
A handgun can be used to shoot a dropped handgun out of reach of an adversary.
A bullet may be able to ricochet three times and return to the shooter, but it will not have lethal velocity.
It is not possible to shoot a gun out of a person's hand without injuring them.
Guns can be shot around corners with special devices.
A person can shoot a target while airborne after jumping.
The sonic boom from a supersonic bullet will not break glass.
A loud car stereo system will not cause a rifle to misfire, but the shock wave from a bomb can.
Davy Crocket could have shot a musket and split the bullet on a distant axe blade.
A tree can be cut down with machine gun fire.
Cigarette butts fired from a gun can be lethal.
You cannot shoot a hat off a person's head; the bullet will not transfer enough energy.
A bullet can be shot into the empty chamber of another revolver, and two bullets can collide in midair and fuse together.
An Old West gunslinger could not have shot a hole through a silver dollar, fired five times before a coin was dropped to the ground, or saved a man from hanging by shooting the rope.
Bullets can generate sparks when they ricochet, but it's not common.
A bullet could serve as a replacement electronic fuse and eventually heat up enough to discharge.
Loose bullets in a hot oven or a fire will explode, but they will not have lethal velocity. However, a loaded gun in a hot oven can fire a lethal bullet.
What is Bulletproof
Things that can stop bullets: a fish tank, a block of pykrete, inch-thick polycarbonate, and possibly a police badge, a belt buckle, certain bathroom tiles, and several pizzas in a warming bag.
Things that are not bulletproof: a tape measure, a golf ball, a wallet, a hair weave, a refrigerator door, a car door, a car covered with phone books, an iPod, human fat, human muscle, a mixture of cornstarch and water, an over door, a deck of playing cards, a book, and ¼-inch polycarbonate.
Three watermelons can stop a .50 caliber bullet.
A metal cigarette lighter can stop a bullet only if the bullet has already ricocheted off another surface.
A laptop may be able to block a shotgun blast.
A person can hide underwater as protection from bullets.
Explosives & Explosions
Standing between two identical explosions is not safe; rather, the shock waves accumulate.
A vehicle containing flammable gas can explode when it receives a keyless remote signal.
C-4 plastic explosive is stable enough to burn without exploding, even when subjected to falling anvils, gun shots, and thermite.
C-4 will detonate in a microwave only if it is wired with a blasting cap.
Binary explosives (Tannerite) in the trunk of a car will not detonate if the car is rear-ended.
When exposed to fire, a small propane tank can explode and fly high into the air.
Igniting thermite on top of ice will cause an explosion.
A large fireball can be created by a cloud of saw dust or powdered creamer.
If a trail of gas from a leaking car is lit on fire, the fire will not catch up to the car and blow it up.
Diving underwater could make an above-water explosion more survivable.
A person can float on his/her back at the surface to improve the survivability of an underwater explosion.
A person can outrun a trail of burning gunpowder and kick it out before it reaches the source.
Aerosol cans and beer kegs will explode in an open fire, and a keg exploding could cause lethal injury.
A stick of dynamite might be able to help clean out a cement truck, but it will not remove a solid slab of concrete.
A person who lights gasoline in a culvert will be burned, but not blasted out a great distance.
A methane explosion can launch a manhole cover into the air.
A Christmas tree doused with liquid nitrogen will not explode.
It not possible to flatten a car using explosives without obliterating it.
An aquarium, a garbage truck, and a bed can effectively contain an explosion, but a filing cabinet and a steel safe cannot.
A wooden table, a car, a metal dumpster, and a cinder block wall can all protect someone from the shock wave of a bomb.
Dry ice bombs are very dangerous.
Unusual Materials & Uses
Bullets made of ice cannot be used to kill someone without leaving a trace, nor can bullets made of meat, gelatin, teeth, or bone.
Gummy bears, poop, and salami can each be turned into rocket fuels.
A cannon made of ice is not feasible, nor is a cannon made from a bamboo stalk.
Cannonballs made of stone could be effective and disintegrate on impact, leaving the enemy nothing to fire back.
Pirates could have improvised an effective cannonball using chains, nails, or steak knives, but not using bottles of rum, cutlery, or a wooden leg.
A block of cheese can be fired from a cannon with enough force to shred a ship's sail.
Warm clothing can be made of bubble wrap.
Bed sheets can be used to make an improvised rope, and ropes made of toilet paper or hair are also plausible.
An excavator can load itself into a truck, use its bucket as an oar to row a barge, and spin in place to allow a person to wakeboard on surrounding water. Furthermore, a skilled operator can use an excavator to thread a needle or pour a glass of wine.
Duct Tape
Multiple MythBusters episodes were dedicated to investigating the uses of duct tape.

Duct tape can be used to make a large trebuchet, shelter, rope, kayaks, clothing, canoes, a bridge, a sail boat, a cannon, and even a full-scale airplane.
Duct tape can be used to lift a car, temporarily seal leaks in a boat, hold a disassembled car together, and hold a car to a pole so it can't drive away, but it is not feasible to stop a moving car with duct tape.
Duct tape cannot be used to make an effective seat belt, nor can super glue.
Historical Feats
The Apollo moon landings were not faked; there are not discrepancies in the photos, a flag can flap in a vacuum, a footprint can be made on the moon, the video footage is not slowed down, and the astronauts did leave behind equipment that we can detect.
The Hindenburg was destroyed because of hydrogen gas, not its paint.
Nikola Tesla probably did not build an earthquake machine.
The Confederates in the American Civil War may have built a steam-powered machine gun, but it would not have been effective or reliable. They could not have launched a two stage rocket from Richmond to D.C.
An Ottoman Turk in the 17th century could not have made the first manned rocket flight.
A two-stage missile with rocket-propelled arrows could have been made in 14th-century China. In 18th-century China, a throwing weapon that could decapitate an opponent and return to the thrower could have been made. Neither weapon, however, would have been reliable in combat.
13th-century Syrians could have made a torpedo-like weapon that traveled over the surface water and exploded on impact.
A medieval army could not have improvised a catapult built from trees and used it to hurl corpses over a castle wall.
A 15th-century astrologer could not have made it to space on a throne powered by bamboo rockets.
A medieval clan could have built a cannon out of a tree that exploded and destroyed part of their own town.
Ancients
Archimedes could not have built a powerful steam cannon.
An army of 500 people holding mirrors cannot focus enough sunlight to set a wooden ship on fire.
The ancient people of Babylon could have created a crude battery for various uses.
Using a drum submerged in a shaft, the ancient Chinese may have been able detect the tunneling of invading armies.
Ancient Chinese armies could have made effective body armor from paper.
The ancient Greeks could have built a fully-automatic weapon that fired arrows.
Ancient armies could not have built a cannon completely out of leather.
An ancient Korean hwacha could have fired 200 arrows that exploded on impact.
MythBusters Results © 2007-2022 Contact TV Schedule Watch Episodes