UGS303 Dancing America
Dance In Your World Creative Response
Lazar Ilic
EID li948

So I was considering either actually producing a film sequence of clips of hip hop music video files or capturing many of them in a single image file. Then I saw on the YouTube platform that UC Riverside's 909 Hip Hop Dance Troupe did a little most viral dance moves montage. I could have considered doing something like this myself alone.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wwtl95RpCwc&ab_channel=Univ.ofCalifornia%2CRiverside

2010- Cali Swag District "Teach Me How to Dougie"
2011- Rej3ctz "Cat Daddy "
2012- PSY "Gangnam Style"
2013- Baauer "Harlem Shake"
2014- 2 Milly "Milly Rock"
2015- Silentó "Watch Me (Whip/Nae Nae)"
2016- Zay Hilfigerrr & Zayion McCall "Juju on that Beat"
2017- Katy Perry "Swish Swish"
2018- Drake "In My Feelings"
2019- Blanco Brown "The Git Up"

To be quite frank and honest, in my own life, I primarily remember Soulja Boy Tell'em "Crank That" from 2009. The film is mildly funny for it depicts Soulja Boy on a laptop from the time period. Where he is using an instant messaging application to discuss a record deal. Now this technology was kind of new at the time. And he is on souljaboytellem.com viewing his own films. Cool stuff and kind of foreshadows his later public egotism.

I did see some other compilations and an XXL article which also included some viral hip hop dances. I could walk through some of these, Superman imagery, the fact that dance films are a huge part of DaBaby's image and success, twerking, sexuality, and so on and so on. Perhaps that is for another time.

In terms of little moves people might do at parties, they are not so innocuous. I think many people know that flicks of the wrists can mean cooking cocaine. Crank That being about motorcycle mechanisms. This comes into internet meme history and it actually being very viral in person. One of my moves is to mime flipping pancakes and stirring soups; I like to do pretend kitchen moves.

I will leave this image project at a 2x2 that most people could open up on their monitour and view. Wearing a jacket on a beach is such an iconic clothing move. This is one of my all time favourites in the parody genre, though it is lacking from a dance perspective. I personally am fond of the line "two plus two is four minus one that's three quick maffs".

One thing for African Americans, and also sometimes African Brits, is the fact that black people get rich doing this sort of thing. And kids see it and maybe think to try it, rather than more stable means of obtaining economic prosperity. And so I won't weigh on in here on whether or not anything is perpetuated, a lot of people enjoy this stuff and think it's in good fun.