This course lowkey requires attendance and I will write here so the instructor and teaching assistants could theoretically verify that I am in fact half paying attention. I will compile some thoughts if the reader is curious.

2022-01-18

Syllabus

There was an image file of Carter and Bush at respective inaugural balls I think at the White House or thereabouts and I emphasized that I thought the difference was in that the former was rather more comfortable looking and friendly and fun whereas the latter it seemed more like a contemporary news publicity stunty type of event. Furthermore I chimed in that Carter was at the time a mid leftist.

On Texas I said that I forget how things like Asleep At The Wheel, Willie Nelson, the type of dance you might see at The Shady Grove at a "folk" live music event is local and I am used to it.

An image of something related to the Thriller Michael Jackson film I said it had been a while and referring to earlier comments on wedding dances I said that quite a few of the earlier human written records on music are in relation to wedding dances.

I mentioned that I had last been to a dance which was trained very seriously for I think at maybe like an Austin Symphony Nutcracker rehearsal type of thing downtown.

On America, American, and marginalized I said like freedom, rights, Judeo-Christian to a higher degree than Western Europe.

I did not bring up my precomputed thought which is that many are of the opinion that America is a fantastic place to be in and one many immigrants want to move to. So in a way marginalised in America is still pretty darn good compared to how a whole lot of the world has it. Marginalised is marginalised and one can draw 0 lines, and worry about all such things. But also that many are of the opinion that black people are well some of the best dancers are very skilled and they are black people actually very good at the task of dancing.

2022-01-20

Don't Get It Twisted: Dance Is An Intellectual Pursuit

So I still fundamentally operate on the level of like do I think this looks cool or technically skilled or whatever. In any case apparently the specifics all do matter. And I know training matters. So the claim that movement creates empathy in the audience is an intriguing one. And I know that mirror neurons are in fact real. I am not so sure about all of this intelligence mumbo jumbo thought this image file is OK. In terms of mind body connections and brighter futures, sounds like good stuff I do not know. I personally stretch my legs daily and find that makes me feel good. It is worth clicking around and skimming around this website Dance Magazine to get a sense for what the course instructor might care about.

With pow wows cancelled we viewed films of fully clothed indigenous dancers. It struck me how they must have taken so long to get all dressed up. And it was snowy, wow! In any case I infer that these people must care quite a lot really about this particular activity. I know dancing could be seen by some as an "art". In that it is kind of a waste of energy and so lowkey it functions to signal resource abundance, that one can dedicate energy to pursuits such as these.

The alley dancers, Lazarus, Philadelphia thing the Teaching Assistant actually queried why it might be this particular dance and I lacked the context needed to follow.

2022-01-21

Boring see which topic I get assigned from the survey.

2022-01-25

http://www.script-o-rama.com/movie_scripts/m/mad-hot-ballroom-script-transcript.html

So I struggle to care enough to actually view this film though the UT Austin website functions it does not provide me with the raw text file transcript maybe I can read a subtitles file well actually but the Wikipedia page says it shows kiddos I am sure having a fun time having a ball really tango, foxtrot, swing, rumba, merengue. Kinda sounds like a mix of dancing and a mix of cultures there really. There is a competition I guess sounds lame. I really struggle to care esepcially if this film includes kids musings on life which reveal an underlying maturity. Very odd transcript to be sure I skimmed it, cheating, selling drugs, weird stuff man any case the transcript may help.

So all this talk about social dance made me think about film scenes of not that actually and real life I guess just like when 2 people a couple dance together and it's real nice or even just 1 person dancing alone for fun emanating with their own eminence. But I guess social dance is OK too voila whatever yadda yadda yadda legible slides lotta yapping.

Just a thought, this social dance is sort of about the aspects which are unique to social settings: the group psychology and culture or shared beliefs involved. This is contra someone dancing alone for fun, feeling good, or a couple which can also be a moving setting. So women and men may feel a bit of pressure it really varies but literal physical strength can play a role in moves and lifts in dances too so there is that. These people depicted seem to really genuinely be "having a ball" as it were, having a blast.

Yes this film is very interesting and fun to be sure it reminds me a little of a scene in American Psycho actually there are multiple in that book where discos and drugs are involved.

This class, this is real human history I mean at the time maybe the older folk were viewing these dances and thought to themselves like "wow what wonky stuff the kids are up to these days". To be quite honest I am not sure when the technology of these lights really became common. I personally would find them annoying and I am sure that the actual darkness or visibility in such a setting matters the headspace of being in it I mean.

2022-01-27

Mad Hot Ballroom And The Politics Of Transformation

OK so some real wanked out pomo post modernist ranting after like quotations of generic film critics is a funny opening. Lot of ranting but things get half interesting when we demarcate documentary from fiction because in fact the production of such a film is a very serious thing. Frankly I read the entire thing it has been awhile since I read an academic pomo piece of writing and it was OK as far as those are concerned. Real update for me, pretty mid brow tier and I think my own writing may half please the course instructor. I can imitate this type of stuff a little bit and fly through these quizzes and essay assignments I think maybe an A- B+ type of deal here we'll see.

Made a comment about like some Head Judge character in the film being all lame about winning man the kids having fun out the dance it is OK for the kiddos to win a winner prize but as most modern people recognize genuine participation does count for something.

Thanks for the lecture! Another great day, learning, sharing, thought provoking questions, and from the Teaching Assistants in the chat!

2022-01-28

Transitioning From High School To College Level Writing

I did not read I do not care really. I think about my writing all the time and know I need to cut the run ons.

2022-02-01

Dance Workshop: Line Dance

I need to do a writeup. So in any case camera was not forced to be on which means my dancing will not ever be verified... I totally always have the out of dim room, poor Chromebook camera performance, but I set the video to the speaker pinned mode so that I could observe a trained dancer in a well lit dance studio complete with wall mirrors executing some technical moves. I need more adjectives so he was kind of walking around the foot work was critical his hands positions were kinda odd casual. The whole thing is a little bippidy boppidy we shall say and the instructor is casually dressed also a little bippidy boppidy some hands movements this looks fun enough. I will be sure to read up on this topic prior to executing the assigned writeup. It is a little roasty in my room I should drop it 1F or so right about now kinda cramping a little to be quite honest not accustomed to the current environment humidity whatever. Now there is some actual left foot out right foot out alternating with some clapping and slightly roboto arm movements rigidity in the arm noted. And he flops his chest forward a little in a funny way. We shall put it this way some of my classmates are jiggling as is to be expected in dancing it is mildly interesting and of note but looks roughly the same as before. Now he does a little left to right lateral movement sliding dragging his feet on the ground and then a weird little kickedy kick move. Now a bunch of like little spins and half spins and hand movements. A couple kids are next to eachother and one camera is much much much better at handling light deltas huge huge surprising difference. "Thanks X! This was fun and educational. Thanks X, X, and X." Notes right now smash a draft of this submission to be sure right now is the optimal time to get to it. Footloose is an American folk musical. He is doing some more footwork critical movements it is a lot of footwork really a couple two steps lot of clapping and quarter twirls almost a boogie yeah now we boogie mode. I think he is inside a 10mx10m box on the ground.

2022-02-03

The People Making It Are Indigenous, But Indigenous Is Not A Genre

I opened up the New York Times in Incognito Mode which natively clears cookies functionally and [ctrl a] [ctrl c] [ctrl v]ed in to my text editor as usual and read it. Was pretty terse and not that exciting.

2022-02-08

Beyond Description: Writing Beneath The Surface

"
The air changes as Fahoury, with understated intensity, walks across the stage decisively, making a sharp right turn to land at center stage, where he contorts in and out of sinewy shapes that make his supple shoulders melt as his torso bows and bends. With whipping changes of direction, his arms form strict geometric shapes at odds with the rest of his body, which seems, somehow, to want to evaporate.
"

It made me really want to actually see the dance. This is why I chose these 2 sentences from a New York Times article to share. In this course I have been getting much better at writing about dance.

Quality, Action, Person/Place/Thing, Image, Analysis

The instructor put up a ton of writing examples so we can eyeball and think about our own writing and just precisely how descriptive it is or is not.

How does a performer feel? I know that people can get in a mood when they dance, and others maybe be a little self conscious under a gaze or camera. The setting made me think of bugs, and then of the visible wind, breeze on the skin. In conjunction with slow movements it may feel good, but again balancing in the wind can be tricky. The title had me thinking this may be higher energy, but the bamboo gymnastics was very calisthenic. I will try and describe. In front of columns, a greyscale woman tosses and turns, at moments it is like her body is on the bottom of the ocean, random currents moving it. Others, she has a will. Perhaps she will stand up straight like one of those columns. It is smooth, and later these sentiments are echoed with a man who actually dances in the edge of a sea. He wiggles, and feigns like the Greek ocean god has himself predated upon him. A quotation about nature, life, and how with great listening, the meaning behind everything can be understood makes me chuckle a wee bit.

Gymnastic, bending in the water, tossing and turning. Thrusting legs and arms, torso pressed on the ground, the waves may wash the dancing man away upon his fainting, never still, always turbulent.

Hi all, I have an extremely strong preference to only communicate via text in the context of this course so I would appreciate your cooperation in engaging with me via that route.

I have produced a number of extremely interesting dance films which lend credence to the idea of a meritorious A in this course [if further review is needed via university policy] and will be revealed at a later date. Furthermore either in the form of an ad hoc de novo recorded oral, a live presentation, or a .txt file I intend to include a Jerome dance and a "Jerome is in the house, watch your mouth!" [double entendre "wash"/"watch"] with a winky face. Really going to need to drill it into the people how much the written records reveal that Jerome Robbins was perceived to kind of be a radical, visionary, genius, flagrant egotistical, perfectionistic, dickweed, douchebag, literally controlling the movements of others into the "esthetics".

Ooh, watch me, watch me [yeah]
Ooh, watch me, watch me [yeah]
Ooh, watch me, watch me [yeah]
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh [okay, okay]

2022-03-22

Yeah thanks group and thanks Dr. Rossen and Ms. Barbour-Payne and nice questions nice presentation!

Thanks Dr. Rossen as always this was nice and I know I understood that little story about the dance group going bankrupt, and just how tricky it is for humans in the dance scene and broader local arts scene to get by sometimes, earn a living in the biz, it is the dream for those who are deeply passionate about dancing to make it! And so invariably along the way some fail and have to make ends meet via other routes as part of their path and journey!

2022-03-25

:/ OK work OK readings.

If my project is to be on the so called "robotic" dances then I personally have an interest in how humans and machines interact in the past, present, and future, and just the degree to which they perceive humans and machines as alike or different. I know that humans imitating old robots was once en vogue. And now that real medium performance robots imitating human motions is en vogue and leads to humans perceiving them to be more friendly and human like. In some automated settings like home care, assistants, or executing service at a fast food restaurant establishment, the optimal robot may be rather humanoid in some respects to optimise the client user experience. It is all very exciting and there exist leading firms in Boston and worldwide doing research in these domains. There also exist 1080 and 4k films on the YouTube platform worth expounding upon further in my actual project were Dr. Rossen to approve of this domain and theses. One of my favourite Deep Learning researchers, who has had a huge impact with his podcast outreach, has an interest in robots, as do Elon Musk et al. From old repetitive and rhythymic dances to jump men robots we shall see perhaps I explore roughly 5 selections and rant a little bit in writing. Androids with really potent auxiliary technologies excite me like the Google Glasses project and ideation. Actually the conversion of everything into the .txt file format also excites me if Library Genesis could be automatically parsed into .tex this would help many humans read maths writing because old books sometimes are harder to read!

The teaching assistant in this course is friendly, helpful, perhaps Black I am not sure or forget if that was stated explicitly, but in any case I think she works hard here in our department to be a good teaching assistant, perhaps also in her own dancing, bona fide hustler looking to get a job so that is that we work hard. Develop our own writing and orations on dance further as well as the actual communication of messages through that form!

Kraftwerk We Are The Robots

According to Disc Jockey Magazine and Ben Cardew in The Real Story Of How Daft Punk Became The Robots... an exploding discoball story... enigmatic French duo transformed into robots... Thomas and Guy...

"
Bangalter's helmet was apparently inspired by Gort6 from the 1951 film The Day The Earth Stood Still, its silver casing, suggestion of a mouth and eye-level visual display coming off as slightly sinister. De Homem-Christo's gold mask is most notable for its vast LED display, which came to life during their concerts, transforming from a rather imposing black mass into a riot of colour and rainbow effects. The gloves were more standard, made up of metallic plating on ribbed black spandex. But Daft Punk paired their helmets with some spectacular outfits, from a very louche ruffled shirt and cigar combo to sequin-embellished tuxes designed by Hedi Slimane.

"The Day The Earth Stood Still was a favourite film of Thomas' and mine, so we had a mutual point of reference from the very beginning," says Gardner. "You always start pulling references from other things to share with people to communicate something visual... We were pulling references of Gort, which is the robot's name from The Day The Earth Stood Still, and also the police-style helmets from THX, George Lucas's student film; then just straight-up police helmets and other things along that line that had a visor built into them."
"

Dead Mouse Deadmau5

Dance Troupes Doing Robot Dances

Meme Robot Dances

The Actual Robots Dancing

Define Robot Clearly And Technically

Great class session might do Final Proposal right now! Thanks as always for reminding us of deadlines and due dates really helps us!

2022-03-29

Oy it has been awhile since I viewed High School Musical! What a blast from the past!

2022-03-31

I want to emphasise that rather than merely describe what it is we observe in dance and musicals it ought to be noted that in some way these documents can function as a reflection of the ideology of the time or of the creator. But it can also be the creator trying to teach the viewership or lead to them living life in a different way. And so when people nowadays choose to depict more strong female characters for example this can actually lead to more strong female figures in real life. And so this duality of causal direction goes both way when we observe works and historical documents. The creator can be somewhat prescriptivist if they want to transmit those messages or meanings.

In terms of America and American culture it sort of comes into the issue of what is really popular what is a valid reference one could expect someone like say at the barber's shop to know... I think when I was younger television streaming numbers reflected that many were aware of say a television show like Glee and nowadays many kids can talk about what is currently being streamed on the Netflix platform. But in terms of non meme dances and dance films I am not so totally sure that there are really too too many broadly popular new things. I know some people like Broadway quite a few but it comes into Tik Tok and kids or whom is referencing what. I personally viewed the Darren Aronofsky fictional film Black Swan as a child and have enjoyed seeing actual documentary footage of real life dancers in this course, many of whom seem quite fun, happy, and hope they are doing OK. I do think that was one of the more popular dance related adjacent films in recent times which was not like really explicitly dance centric I mean a review of stand alone dance scenes in Hollywood cinema could be interesting.

2022-04-07

Spam the chat but for me age 23 hope is reminding myself that I am trying to do the right actions lead to securing a job and my own personal American dream here in the current labour market it is tricky. So it is nice to be a dance spectator when one can afford to have that sort of free time.

Capitalism... I do not really want to rant politics here but certainly some of our dance films show that dancing and dance is free. As I have mentioned before and in some of our online readings, you can always dance alone, in public on campus put on a free solo show performance... people, even poor people can have a lot of fun getting together and dancing. And the people and the Black people do not need to own the $10000 Kanye West Yeezy pair of sneakers or $50000 Rolex Rollie watch to dance you know and the fashion does not need to have a price tag. Dancing is priceless. But anyways you are supposed to see the fictional portrayals and know that privilege is real and in the real world a lot of people out there hustling and you know voting left voting Democrat really does lead to more funding and better education to the kids in the inner cities and so on and so on.

I will chime in again, we shall see about Universal Basic Income notions by 2040 or 2050 but for now it is exceedingly difficult and for a variety of complex reasons, very few people in America are set to retire comfortably by age 55. I mean quantitatively speaking one still needs like $100,000 per year before reported wellbeing really begins to plateau and a lot of people need like ~$2,000,000 in lifetime career aggregate pre tax income to retire comfortably depending upon lifestyle choices and property taxes.

"Work ethic" is an interesting phrase Ms. Barbour-Payne. Like my father seems to really feel obligated to work and provide economic labour value to the market until he dies. And it strikes me as rather odd. The predominant ideology nowadays on my end is that kids aspire more to retiring young and living minimally. But to get there one needs to work hard up front as early as possible, the earlier the better. Yeah these language barriers are real I know quite a few 2nd generation immigrants who know much less about the English language and that is all real.