UGS303 Dancing America
Essay 1: Dance Of Dreams
Lazar Ilic
EID li948

For this dance film analysis assignment, I chose Dance Of Dreams. The title drew me in. It is a 1080 film on the YouTube platform. The scenery and contemporary yogaish clothing were of note. Normally one associates those things with urban dance, rather than ballet.

Dance Of Dreams uses the environment to emphasise how lonely COVID has been for some people. A few of the settings, such as a viewing point near the Golden Gate Bridge, could have been filled with humans. Instead, they were empty, save for a dancer or 2. These pairs literally showed how couples have been able to remain bonded during the pandemic. As for the production, a few aspects lended a dreamy visual tone.

The viewer is struck with a man alone, on a rooftop. The day is clear. Was he just sunbathing there, on a recliner? And got up to dance a little, stretch? In any case, his movements were vivid. Arm extensions with gusto, twirls.

Then, a pair, a couple, perhaps. Pale white skin contrasts with black, the day is foggier than foggy. The merest beginning of the Golden Gate Bridge vanishes in the background. During a synchronous cut, as the dancers execute dynamic spins and lifts of physical prowess, the viewer sees white gull birds. The camerawork is alive too. It is a ballet in sneakers.

On an outlook above the water, far from the city. Alcatraz? The muted greens and greys are almost a painting backdrop. Is this a dream? The humans are human, ethnically diverse, neither ugly nor beautiful. Their bodies are strong and skilled. There is something avian in her dance, not feline, and the wind on the water shows this. Almost dancing with the wind, not gone with it.

The segues are long fade outs and ins. I am moved by the image of The Palace Of Fine Arts. I was last there in the Summer of 2017 for a conference on altruism.

Here the lighting, the editing, the oranges and greens. Lo, colours, and yet another pair dancing! They move around and together, a circle on the ground in their sight to guide them. They don what is not quite hipster streetwear. Together they lay, and later nearly kiss, prior to the ending of hands separating, gliding, a shot looking upwards at architectural circles above. A couple which could have been were it not for the pandemic, or one which found eachother despite or because of COVID?

Nice credits roll and one wonders about the film Vertigo and the scene d'amour, the auteurs involved in that and this production. The dancers like to dance. They can like it without being in a large group during this pandemic, one supposes. And there is a liking for the city of San Francisco and its people, also diverse.