This Is Water
This Is Air
I Care

A la Zarathustra Elazar Brady we have a new puzzle hot off the keyboard. Simulation of air borne particulate matter movements. Say you place a prism next to a front door crack. Instead you affix a U-shaped mass on the interior of the door such that the edges are very close to the wall. By how much does flow of malodour drift reduce by using a U-shape rather than a prism? Interesting task. I might run some numbers and test some numbers. There almost certainly exist strong shapes for interior door weather draft strippers which could be engineered to produce solid robust O2 Oxygen throughput with less VOC Volatile Organic Compound.

Could do a Master Of Computer Science quasi-"thesis" on this topic actually implementing 3-dimensional visualisations and different diffusion models. Perhaps open with a discussion of a simpler case like a delta diameter or radius cylindrical hole in an infinite wall of thickness delta and a pseudorandom breeze flowing air borne molecules through. In this simpler cylindrical hole case one could consider a uh cup shape on the inside of the hole and how precisely air and gravity propagate molecules around in that region as well as the general air region near the hole and beyond. Then move to the square case with a square crack of large size and again width delta. Model an optimisation problem and try to solve for the optimal shapes to have stable O2 Oxygen throughput but minimise some kind of aggregated VOC Volatile Organic Compound parameters and so on and so on and shieeet. Perhaps some kind of aperture to ensure that most of the out flowing air is actually flowing out say kind of along the outside of a bell curvature towards the door crack itself or point of emissions if possible so air flows in through the hole and then outwards on the interior of the bell curvey kind of shape where it then leaves through a directed channel to diffuse along the wall of emissions rather than more outwards away from the wall.

OKOKOK day 2 so it is interesting different already extant frameworks for running simulations like this on GitHub and in research Python and C++. Naively we might expect with nothing blocking there will be tonnes of emissions in to the space and with say a cylinder blocking the cylinder hole we actually not probably that a distance of delta is worse than a distance of e.g. 2*delta because the pressurisation in a delta setting is higher thus imagining the flow throughput there could lead to more emissions directly in to the interior so we want to minimise some dispersion metric formally and know there is some optimal value even in that setting an optimal distance with which to block emissions. Simple enough ~physics olympiad task maybe maybe not. But optimisation shapes is not actually even that trivial and I should go back to consulting more domain-knowers-of-stuff. Draft up sketches. I do not know what which programme would produce here should be interesting to see an example of computers annihilating humans in the search space task at "ideating". I drafted up 3 sketches.

OKOKOK days 3 and 4 much more reading and reviewing time to see what is on GitHub and ArXiV and what models of pressurisation and so on and so on I will examine gravity and different kinds of dynamics here uh think even just resolving certain details of simple cases and uh phase transitions would look good strong nice and pretty like some of these ArXiV fluid dynamics postings write up some models and codes and graphs and outputs would look OK. Reason about different things and produce some kind of shape which could be affixed to a hole say and deflect air backwards uh... not sure a simple kind of attempt to direct it totally straight backwards is optimal here probably not under different models. So perhaps one metric worth considering minimising here would be simply the gravicenter of the particle locations where they hit the floor underneath the whole so minimise that and in particular that will lead to some kind of lowish pressure flow downwards and to the sides.

So maybe we do also want to consider like say if we are attaching a pipe to the hole in the wall and trying to redirect the air back towards the floor near the bottom of the wall basically uh say we also have some constraint on the maximum intrustion off of the wall and in to the room this object can have and uh... maybe maximum diameter constraint too so the object needs to be sort of small ish like an bath tub pipe drain but for air and somehow try to diffuse off pressure depending on uh R3 T models and uh gravity uh pressure uh read up more on simple dynamics uh and that earlier example.

I might have time for this might not Summer 2024 maybe ought to focus on Finance and if I get in to Alibaba final round study prepare more for that one shot... ugh. Maybe after trading come back if I want to or need to or feel motivated to do so have the time write up some sharp parallel C++ as well as some Wolfram Mathematica perhaps and just demonstrate some simplish technical skills here on this project. Or focus on some statistics research.