One would think by far the most obvious way to prove 40 for n=5 dimensions is optimal would be to observe like maybe hmm if 41 was possible then there would exist configurations nearby near a valid 41 configuration where the overlap is lowish uh low so then it suffices to search adequately high resolution configurations of 41 possible locations and see if any of those induce sufficiently low uh total overlap like otherwise we might be able to prove not possible. But the number of such configurations blows up massively like in a computer search O[Massive^41/41!] or some garbage so it is a no go immediately. Think from another perspective we would need the coordinisation of the kissing points uh to then uh... think more about hmm some underlying graph structure uh... imagine we had a very high resolution graph so we restrict the kissing points to some discrete subset would depend on the symmetry or other properties of this graph of points we put on the sphere as to where which distances are induced on the graph to generate the right subgraph with each distance being adequately large.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45092251/find-a-subset-of-k-most-distant-point-each-other

MaxMin Diversity Problem

So an obvious approach would be to read up more upon that and then think about high resolution graphs on spheres and how tight these approaches can work there. I am sure I ought to read more. So in any case one might think it would suffice to verify that there are no solutions say we re norm the metric so the distance needs to be >=1 between each pair of points to work in the final true version well then maybe it would suffice to see if there are no solutions where the maximum distance is >=0.999 or whatever on a sufficient low resolution graph because the existence of a real solution would imply there was a nearby configuration well approximated on our graph by picking the closest points e.g. which would induce such a distance so basically if we can verify there are no ways to pick 41 points with a maximum distance which is >=0.999 on our graph then we are done boom. Well OK so if somebody could show that there exists a fast approximation algorithm which gets within some certain performance threshold then it would work on this task maybe.

I intend to read up more on the precise case of how the 44 upper bound in the n=5-dimensional case was derived. Would seem to me as though a simple smoothing argument can lead in to a claim that without loss of generality we have each dude is "glued" to 2 neighbours touching it. Otherwise we can wiggle it around a bit until it is touching >= 2 neighbours and then glue it to precisely 2 of them. But then this leads to a breakdown in to a union of cycles actually of kissing spheres. At which point we may then potentially think about the hull and then convex hull kind of programatically. Maybe we could parametrise hulls or something and then reduce the number of test cases substantively.

OKOKOK well still need to even produce a relatively symmetric distribution of points on the hypersphere say at that point need to clarify how close an approximation for the distance is valid and then maybe from there just form chains uh... so there would be around like say 13 chains in the worst case and uh each chain would present uh well now this would depend on the setup and precise numerics as well as given the chains how to try making them work out uh... which would come in to how to rapidly check if the graph enables that setup huh need to work out the precise numerics. Different approach from that very highly cited paper by Bachoc and Vallentin.

OKOKOK so it would suffice instead to solve that discrete max min problem but instead ensure the distance between any 2 dudes is 0.999 of the true necessary distance etc. depending on the point set.

Well OK so a first step would be to set up a symmetric or nearly symmetric point set on the hypersphere... or else set up one such that uh basically any point has a sufficiently close dude and then for each point we count as its potential next value in the chain like any dude which is in the uh uh uh... within that distance of a point on the sphere cap circle from the point or whatever. Which still comes in to the precise numerics of uh... like still having uh uh uh... maybe say it was on the order of even (10*5)^14 is still too huge to enumerate cases quite closely without more pruning based around how wacky some dude was destroying other cases in a batch or something. So maybe it is not so trivial.

Still some interesting readings here on The Thomson Problem as well as Tammes Problem

So I will need to think more about that case of smoothing in to 14 chains of length 3 where in the chain they are kissing and also uh consider maybe rather than on the discrete graph uh if it would be more useful to think of it in the setting of uh like uh pruning on the uh... say uh... we are talking about a 5 dimensional uh 5 x 42 matrix where we want each vector to be a unit vector with the angle e.g. dot product between each pair of dudes to be sufficiently small.