Maybe this one is super easy or canonical but say we have a function like f(x) which is say for now kind of continuous uh ish and has f(0) = f(1) = 1 with 0 < f(x) < 1 on the interval (0, 1) and we want to say pick some points on the function so when we connect the dots and take the approximated integral with the trapezoids we minimise this integral or whatever. Well it is interesting because again I was thinking about say we are talking about a distribution like say a function on R2 or whatever maybe we are talking a geographical map a topographical map or something we want to leak little information about to the counterparty and want them to severely misestimate the underlying land if we are forced to reveal a few things or something. Kind of sort of not really like that Project Leonhard Euler task 901 Well Drilling but like uh... it is interesting to think about enough if something can be said with analysis or linear algebra for a uh certain kinds of very straightforward functions to deal with or something.

This is a little side note maybe an interview to task a candidate with kind of ideating and drafting to see if they pop a nearly optimal solution here on me like would think hmmm think like a stochastic gradient descent or something is awful here and probably reveals a lack of insight in to the nature of how we have lots of additional structure to work with like if we can easily differentiate the function or whatever want to note firstly elem that like say we have 2 points and they are fixed and we need to pick 1 more to minimise the area under the trapezoids well then like we want to pick the point such that its tangent line is parallel to the line segment between those 2 points. So elem it is certainly the case that the solution would need to satisfy those constraints in the final setting but even a really naive ish kind of a way to start doing this problem is to like pick uh say pick the global minimum which then splits in to 2 halves and then like repeatedly pick the next splitting minimum which decreases it by the largest amount greedy and then smooth around a bit. Or something. But I am kind of interested in elem better solutions like truly discovering the fastest possible algorithm here might be trivial. So this is kind of interesting like it is very different in a computational setting say where we actually have to query the function somehow or do not know too much about its behaviour in intervals if it has a bounded derivative etc. maybe simpler because the obvious technique in some sort of mathy setting firstly would be to actually go ahead and assume we have the convex hull of the function itself or whatever and then use some algorithms related to "Polygonal approximation of plane convex bodies" inside of the convex hull to maximise the area inside the convex hull is minimising the area under the curve. And so this is kind of interesting. But I think if the candidate went ahead and thought of pinning the minimum and then repeatedly selecting the most area adding next point on the curve breaking down using like a set or whatever could be OK.