Interesting topic I guess for like say one was teaching a course on medical ethics or something uh trying to parse what is a hocus pocus bogus...

Discuss the physical interpretation of events and mentally modeling physics versus uh some statistical numbers or something and how unusual perceptions can be...

Something like a uh explain the uh... like interpreting what physical events led to the results in Siskind's survey on nootropics itself immediately comes in to different arbitrations and adjudications on intelligence as well as the fact that probably just some ~dumb amphetamine addicts perceived they became sharper when really they were just high on amphetamine and became dumber but perceived they were becoming sharper somehow e.g.

Even explaining alleged physical causes like say we are debating how to interpret testosterone results from different time periods in human history or whatever and someone might say a bunch of harmful chemicals are causing the drop in testosterone which is causing a loss of virility or intelligence or whatever... and someone else might say like no no no au contraire it is actually stress which causes testosterone to appear and nowadays more men just have nicer lower stress modern home residential environments and thus their bodies just produce less testosterone or something... so this is why we need more evidence for claims or whatever why anyone would or would not even care about this measured testosterone object.

Promote knowledge like for example in practise we often do want to be promoting scientific evidence-based medical practises. So even waxing might be something I personally think is intuitively good but less evidence-based than some would posit. And in any case maybe caffeine sometimes causes people to make seriously sharp moves in environmental hacking and it is then their environments which cause good outcomes rather than the caffeine directly and so a human in a nice IO house e.g. might benefit from avoiding caffeine e.g. etc. etc.