A Raisin In The Sun Film Messages
Lazar Ilic

In terms of insights about the messages or about what this film emphasizes to me it was mostly on societal inequity and need/deservingness. I know that moral and ethical choices can almost tautologically be referred to simply as choices like any choices, about what one prefers or wants. And so this is about feelings of right and wrong and justice and how for me it mostly has to do with the ending and Walter's choice to stand up to the white people who want to try and stand in the way of him securing a better life for his family.

Of course there is a lack of deservingness. It starts out showing us a rich white person/folk in the mix with banter about obnoxious rich people and one thinks there is no way the white people deserve to be in such better conditions. But the general domestic familial setting kind of play into the idea that an inheritance from a progenitor is a completely legitimate form of deservingness. I mean we often quite literally take it for granted that the state supports such transfers of material assets but it is actually worth pointing out this truth in the context of this film.

It wasn't super strong on like whether or not it is so bad to run a bar and sell alcohol or engage in investment practices it was more on Walter as the central protagonist navigating his life.

As I stated in the following notes I did feel this portrayal had a lot of the non Walter characters seeming rather energetic and the kid dapper so it led to the viewer's perception that really this was also largely about Walter securing a better life for himself. I mean they were not shown as suffering so much it was left in dialogue for the most part and acting performances which were supposed to be emotive.

As a contemporary viewer I think the main takeaway is sort of supposed to be that a film like this, a simple one off take on one family in the South Side of Chicago can really stand in for real black families across the country in the 1950s and that they all went through and go through problems still and that poverty can beget more poverty and it really is a huge deal to break that negative cycle and into something better. Nowadays, a black person would not really face discrimination in such a housing market I mean at that step with money they could buy a house freely and a number of other circumstantial things have changed since then.

Notes From Viewing:

As I strongly prefer the resolution and general production value of recent films, I chose to view the 2008 television film in 1080p.

The film begins with the young family fond of each other chit chatting and immediately their poverty is brought up in that their housing condition leads to a serious loss in the son's sleep quality due to sounds. They talk about money, business, and a monologue about how "rich white people live" it reminds me that this sort of is real. America really was hyper racist only 60 years ago in 1960 and inequity is still real.

In any case the mother's money belonging to her is a message and the emphasis all 3 actors in this opening scene have in their oration I mean the energy they bring it's good acting and goes to show the stress humans in financial woes feel.

The contrast in a film setting is of course more visceral as we cut to him being the chauffeur and see a rich white person. The film has been processed with what appears to me to be a light old timey filter with some post facto colour shifting.

The women talk more and more about rich white people, and how the rich white people will assume they were getting drunk rather than being sick and stuff it's sad I mean when she says "but he loved his children" and goes on to discuss the dreams of black people for their kids it reminds us of that message. Frankly the little kid boy appears in this film presentation rather dapper and sharp and happy which somewhat weakens the message. It would be easy for the viewer to think the kid is really doing fine quite alright and it's the adults also benefit a lot from the money's impact on their direct wellbeing as they are the worried and stressed out ones here.

It's defeatist and status quo justifying when she says the only thing more obnoxious than rich white people is rich coloured people I mean this message has to do with status and perception and envy too. But they prefer being rich and actually this discussion of atheism and man being the one who makes miracles is of note.

I mean in the scene in the bar when they talk about good investment and then black people loving to drink to take their mind off of things frankly again quite a few of the black people in this film really do appear to mostly be doing quite well. Somehow the family doesn't quite seem sad enough or maybe the message is that of resilience and the human ability to remain positive in a less than perfect situation.

I kinda zoned out a bit but the scene about bitterness, and having it all handed on a silver platter I mean it's real it's reality that life was and is fundamentally unfair. People do really get things handed to them on a silver plate, and other people don't, and wealth begets wealth. The richer can keep on getting richer and breaking from poor to rich back then would have been very hard so this check it's real money that matters. That's the thing these women scenes failed to strike me quite like Walter here and Walter is the protagonist and central character navigating with various people and their own desires.

One thing I come to appreciate about this film I have a harder time with text files really imagining the diverse group of humans in terms of ages and genders like of course they are each at different parts of their life journeys and the old woman, young woman, young man archetypes and even like makeup it shows them at their respective life stages. Some mild messaging about tradition but the pacing is kind of slow and the film feels a little drawn out to me.

When talking about this hurt with Walter it's like more of a character study on Walter really can he decide or learn to be content with things as they are or is his desire for better going to make things better. There would not be so much drama here if the other characters were all more in agreement about what ought to be done and that is the central dynamic here it is about a family conflict and decisions. As far as taking a step back this could be like things which take place for a lot of poor families but seeing it for one is supposed to be the resonant drama art form this course is about.

It's late in the film but it's a little fictional seeming almost seeing Mr. Lindner, with his face partial enshrouded in shadow, talk about Special Community Problems. I mean previously all the allusions to race and racism feel a little bit flat to me but "you people." I don't know this oily haired white dude actually uttering these words as a Welcoming Committee to offer them money to stay out and talk about how a whole way of life is threatened by... black people.

So here the film form conveys this messaging more than a text might and the conversations afterwards it's the case that they should not be bothered, they should feel free to be free to do what they want. And not worry if some of their new neighbours don't really like black people. "God's children got wings."

Is it true that the shaky hand cam work around Walter in his confrontations adds excitement and makes him seem more volatile or at least worked up? Sure. All of this narrative arc towards the end about the money I mean the resolution around Mr. Lindner as they announce they will in fact be choosing to occupy the house it's nice.