Close Reading Of Oedipus Tyrannus
Lazar Ilic

In Oedipus Tyrannus, Sophocles uses motifs involving eyes and sight to comment on perspective, bias, and inability to see truth. Sight is often contrasted with oral communication: oracles, curses, truths, lies. Sight, which is often thought to be a sense for discerning pure truth (cf. "I saw it with my own two eyes"), can reveal less truth than the words of others. This leads us to contemplate how we may be more like Oedipus in our real lives than we can ever realize, our fates also unknown.

At the beginning the priest says, "You see yourself how torn our city is, how she craves relief from the waves of death which now crash over her" (Oedipus Tyrannus 15-25). The priest leads Oedipus to think about the city with a reference to his sight ability. Then the priest discusses how Oedipus is seen, how his identity is constructed from his often present subjects and how he needs to act in their interest as their king.

Then Oedipus says, "O my children, I know well the pain you suffer and understand what brings you here... No, I am not blind to it." (Oedipus Tyrannus 63-65). And so his character archetype begins to be formed by giving this strong, confident assertion of his own sightedness. An actor might say it emphatically in an overly confident way. It sets the story plot: Oedipus is on a quest to save the populus, when he is the cause of their suffering, the plague himself. So, he thinks he sees that everyone is under a plague when the truth is not quite that way.

Later Oedipus speaks with Creon, a powerful figure who was the previous king and is brother to his wife Jocasta. He is interested in the word, and asks "My Lord Creon, what word do you bring from the god?" (Oedipus Tyrannus) Creon explains the plagues which are ravaging the populus. Then Creon speaks of the murdered king Laius, whom the god orders them to take vengeance on in order to resolve the sickness. Oedipus says "I know, although I never saw him." (Oedipus Tyrannus 116) This is interesting because here Oedipus does acknowledge his lack of sight, but in fact again he is wrong: he has seen Laius! An actor could pause after "know" and then say "-though" in a very unsure manner, with a brow furrowing, forehead wrinkling maneuver.

Then Oedipus says, further forming his steadfast character: "I shall not cease until I bring the truth to light." (Oedipus Tyrannus) This is a clear connection in expression between truth and light (and therefore sight). In Oedipus's search for the truth he learns from the chorus of "one man, second only to Apollo, who can see the truth, who can clearly help us in our search - Teiresias." (Oedipus Tyrannus).

Chorus: O prophecy of Zeus, sweet is the sound of your words... Yet I quake and I dread and I tremble at those words.
Oedipus: I have heard your prayers... let him tell us now... if Heaven gave you no sign... I utter this curse.
Chorus: You have made me swear an oath...
Oedipus: I know. And yet no mortal can compel a god to speak.
Chorus: There were some rumors once, but no one hears them now.
Oedipus: What rumors? I want to look at every tale that is told.
(Oedipus Tyrannus)

This sequence makes the matters of words more clear. The chorus discusses the power of words, in the form of prophecies. And they care! A curse matters to them, as does an oath. This line about rumors is notable because Oedipus wants to look at the tales like he is able to reject words as he desires and helps him but not if he sees them. Of course there is a tautology in a masked play without facial expression where speech is a primary mode of communication and so the monster was weaving her spells and taunts and Thebes was hearing words of relief and so on and so on. But nevertheless, the playwright uses language relating to words an awful lot. Like "who is the man whom the voice of the Delphian shrine denounced as the killer, the murderer" (Oedipus Tyrannus) rather than simply 'the oracle said was the killer'. But "Zeus and Apollo who know, who can see the affairs of men" (Oedipus Tyrannus) Perhaps these deities can literally gaze down, omniscient, and see from their perch on Mount Olympus, not unlike other deities across cultures.

"Teiresias, all things are known to you... though you are blind, you surely see the plagues that rakes our city... look to the voices of prophetic birds or the answers written in the flames" (Oedipus Tyrannus 318). This is one of the most critical and central lines of the play. "No! No! It is because I see the danger in your words." (Oedipus Tyrannus) from Teiresias to Oedipus, of course the blind prophet now bringing up the issue of words and their dangers. This is followed later by "Because you are blind! No! I shall not reveal my secrets. I shall not reveal yours." (Oedipus Tyrannus 390-391) Oedipus acknowledges that one can understand without seeing, as Teiresias does. The playwright makes clear one of his theses and the converse: one can see without understanding. Oedipus's respect for the eminent Teiresias must be clear in this line.

Oedipus: Do you think you can speak like this forever?
Teiresias: I do, if there is any strength in truth.
Oedipus: There is - for everyone but you. You - you cripple! Your ears are deaf, your eyes are blind, your mind - your mind is crippled!
(Oedipus Tyrannus)

Teiresias says, "[the] truth is my protection" (Oedipus Tyrannus). This is another direct commentary on truth. It is a notable scene and we later come to understand that in fact all of the assertions Oedipus makes about Teiresias are really truths about himself. As Teiresias tells Oedipus, "[so] I say this to you, since you have chosen to insult my blindness — you have your eyesight, and you do not see how miserable you are, or where you live, or who it is who shares your household. Do you know the family you come from?" (Oedipus Tyrannus 494-499)

Teiresias's closing remarks to Oedipus are perhaps the peak of this in the play: "And I tell you this, since you mock my blindness. You have eyes, Oedipus, and do not see your own destruction. You have eyes and do not see what lives with you. Do you know whose son you are? I say that you have sinned and do not know it... Then darkness will shroud those eyes that now can see the light... His eyes now see, but soon they will be blind: rich now, but soon a beggar. Holding a scepter now, but soon a cane, he will grope for the earth beneath him - in a foreign land" (Oedipus Tyrannus). Here, the mocking of the blindness signals towards the fact that sight is not only an instrument with which to see truths, but also to take joy in, and navigate through life. And it is this joy which later will be destroyed.

The chorus follows, "[it] is Zeus and Apollo who know, who can see the affairs of men. But the seer and I, we are mortal, and blind. Who is right? Who can judge? We are mortal, our wisdom assigned in degrees. Does the seer know? Do I? No, I will not believe in the prophet’s charge till the charge has been proved to my mind. For I saw how the king in the test with the Sphinx proved his wisdom and worth when he saved this city from doom." And in this translation it brings the reader to ponder the etymology of the word "seer", literally one who sees. But the playwright here is very explicitly discussing how to the observers in the play and us, their sight is limited, they are not omniscient, and they also can not be sure of what is true and false for they see what we see.

Later, Creon says, "and was this a charge leveled by one whose eyes were clear? Whose head was clear?" (Oedipus Tyrannus 553-554) and so yet again we have a connection between words being said and eyes, sight being equated with sanity. Oeidpus questions Creon with suspicion, "Did you see cowardice in me? Stupidity? Did you imagine that I would not see your treachery?" (Oedipus Tyrannus 651) and here we are reminded that sight can be very consciously motivated and that how we see others or what we see in them is a form of sight. The ability to read others and their intentions. This is somewhat explicated later when Creon says "Hide your naked guilt from his sight." (Oedipus Tyrannus). Whereas our biased sight is our perception mediated by our subconscious; it is capable of producing very motivated visions of reality, seeing only what it wants to see. Note a Freudian connection and interpretation on Oedipus complex, and perhaps in this play Oedipus representing a desire to look in to a subconscious, exemplified by the statement from Jocasta "Men often, in their dreams, approach their mothers’ beds, lie with them, possess them." (Oedipus Tyrannus)

Creon says, after discussing the notion of proof and Oedipus's growing accusations, that "[time] alone reveals the just; a single day condemns the guilty." (Oedipus Tyrannus) This is a somewhat wise foreshadowing again of the ultimatum at the end of the play.

Oedipus, hoping to clear his name, in what is becoming more apparent to us will be his downfall asks: "O God! Am I cursed and cannot see it?... It cannot be - that the prophet sees! Tell me one more thing. ... O God! O God! I see it all now! Jocasta, who told you this?... Could we arrange to have him here - now? ... I am afraid, Jocasta. I have said too much and now I have to see him" (Oedipus Tyrannus 1072). In this context sight serves as a force for seeking out truth. Again, a clear sight/truth tie. Oedipus wants to know the truth and thinks it is in his interest, however, again another's words heed warning. Jocasta says, "why? What difference does it make? Don’t think about it. Pay no attention to what he said. It makes no difference... In the name of God, if you care at all for your own life, you must not go on with this. I cannot bear it any longer" (Oedipus Tyrannus). Now Oedipus who has been ignoring words is finally catching on to the truth and, in an inversion, is being asked to ignore the words!

The chorus towards the end says, "all-seeing time... if only, if only we had never set eyes on you... I sink my eyes into sleep" (Oedipus Tyrannus 1245-1253). The phraseology of setting and sinking of eyes is poetic. As for the eyes of Oedipus we know what will happen. All-seeing time ties in to the final lines of the play and the theme that time reveals, and it is not over until it is over.

We hear of the eventual end, and don't see it. This has to do with violence and of course no actor would actually destroy their eyes for a performance. However, it is of note given that we are reflecting on whether we can now trust these spoken words in a bona fide way. "He tore them from her gown and plunged them into his eyes again and again and again and screamed, 'No longer shall you see the suffering you have known and caused! You saw what was forbidden to be seen, yet failed to recognize those whom you longed to see! Now you shall see only darkness!' And as he cried out in such desperate misery, he struck his eyes over and over - until a shower of blood and tears splattered down his beard, like a torrent of crimson rain and hail" (Oedipus Tyrannus 1306-1309). It is blood, life itself, this earlier sneering about the gift of sight and the desire for more sight being nullified, for finally Oedipus has seen the truth. And the storm is dark. Of course, earlier it was light in the eyes of Apollo and now blindness, a lack of light, being in the dark, and the blood is itself dark, representing a spiritual darkness in Oedipus.

Oedipus then says, again like he can't quite trust anything he hears, "Is this my own voice I hear?... what is there for me to see and love? What sight would give me joy? What sound? Take me away! Take me out of this land! I am cursed! Doomed! I am the man most hated by the gods" (Oedipus Tyrannus 1364-1365). 

The play ends with: "Look at Oedipus - proof that none of us mortals can truly be thought of as happy until he is granted deliverance from life, until he is dead and must suffer no more" (Oedipus Tyrannus 1557-1559).

These distinct invocations of sight related language are intentional. These meditations on truth and perspective are seminal, and recur in works such as The Matrix Revolutions, with Neo being blinded and coming to see through a third eye of truth. In a realistic human setting, not only are we perhaps more like Oedipus than we realize, but a lesson is that it is perhaps better not to seek out truth in the extreme  and that ignorance is bliss. Or that we ourselves ought to be wary, for good things can go bad if it is fated.

Sophocles. Oedipus Tyrannus: A Norton Critical Edition. Trans. and Ed. by Luci Berkowitz and Theodore F. Brunner (New York: W.W. Norton, 1970).