Equality And Truth In The Pillars Of Community
Lazar Ilic

The Pillars Of Community by Henrik Ibsen is about equality and desert (a principle of deservedness), and the lack of them in Karsten Bernick's community. It is a meditation on truth and lies, and actors pursuing their own ends and incentives under the local power structure. The irony and realism in the outcome of the community suggest equality is not always critical for the overall good, but moving towards a new, reformed society based upon equality and truth is ultimately better. There are common and distinct elements relating to inequality, inequity, and asymmetry inside of groups in Oedipus Tyrannus and 12 Angry Men.

	Aune: I do it to uphold the community.

	Krap: Extraordinary! The consul says it destabilizes the community.

	Aune: My community is not the consul’s community, Mr Chief Clerk! As foreman of the Workers’ Association I have to – 

	Krap: You are first and foremost foreman of Consul Bernick’s shipyard. You have first and foremost a duty towards the community which is Consul Bernick’s company; because it’s what we all live by. – So, now you know what the consul had to say to you.

As is mentioned explicitly here at the beginning, The Pillars Of Community deals with ideas about the community. It is about society and justice. Here the traditional asymmetric power structure contributes to stability, and Krap speaks on an older notion of justice, that of duty and obligation, deontology. So, the community is built around Karsten Bernick's shipyard and its flourishing is in the community's economic interest. Many of the community members prefer to live in such a society, where they all have their duties, and achieve an equilibrium. Early on we hear what epitomizes the view of some in the community:

	Mr. Rorlund: Oh yes; it forms a salutary contrast to what we unfortunately see in the newspapers and magazines every day. The gilded and rouged exterior that these larger societies and communities present us with – what does it actually conceal? Hollowness and decay, if you ask me. No moral bedrock under their feet. In a word – they are whited sepulchres, these great modern-day societies.

Ibsen's commentary is explicit, not only about the supposed "moral bedrock" but also how ideology functions and people inside of a community can perceive outsiders and the outside world. Rorlund chooses to view these images of wealth and opulence and can't simply say that he has it worse, for him it must "conceal" some lack. However, for all of the morality talk we see that the leader Karsten is anything but moral in a common-sense usage of the word:

	Karsten Bernick: I’ve not said anything. The town knows nothing about those matters; idle rumours, that’s all they were.

	Mrs. Bernick: Oh, how noble you are, Karsten!

	Karsten Bernick: Just leave these old memories, I say! You don’t know how you torment me by raking all this up.

At this point the play focuses on who knows what truths and Karsten's reputation with respect to the common knowledge of the community. This is a very transparent attempt on Karsten's part to do damage control. In contrast, one assumes that in America there is less rumour and face saving, less of a community; rather, people there are more free to do what they want and say what they want. Their duty is to themselves mostly. As is oft mentioned, in this Norwegian community the women are not so free. And this quotation touches on Karsten's relations with them, to be taken back later:

	Karsten Bernick: You must listen to me, Lona. I do realize that appearances are against me, now that you know all about this thing with Dina’s mother. But I swear to you, it was nothing but a fleeting aberration; I really did, honestly and truthfully, love you once.

As far as truth and lies, there is something about this "appearances" comment. It is all about appearances and the community which superficially appears moral to those within it. But this line almost strikes at the dishonesty in "honestly". In this context, it's almost a meaningless non sequitur to just assert that he really truly did truthfully love her once. He is accustomed to using women. On the domain of truth itself:

	Johan Tonnesen: No need; I understand the situation very well. The house was in a difficult position at the time; and then, when I was gone and you had my defenceless name and reputation to use at will –. Well, I don’t blame you too harshly for that; we were young and reckless in those days. But now I need the truth, now you must speak out.
	
	Karsten Bernick: And right now I need all my moral prestige, which is why I can’t speak now.

Throughout this play, Ibsen directly uses the word "moral" and there is something to learn for a modern viewer. I know some critics think this is Ibsen sneering at small-town Norway. But for some of us modern Americans it's nice to think there was a sense of moral prestige. As, sometimes here, there isn't even that pretense coming from a society so materialistic, individualistic, competitive, and money-oriented. Karsten airs out thoughts on being a leader:

	Karsten Bernick: Well. Such a man knows beforehand, then, that the enterprise he wants to set in motion will undoubtedly cost human lives at some point. But this enterprise is for the common good; for every human life it costs, it will just as undoubtedly further the welfare of hundreds.

This isn't Omelas of Le Guin, but rather it touches more on how inside such an unequal power structure the person up top does have decisions, and tricky ones at that, and can sometimes carry a moral burden while the people would not be guilty. In this context it strikes us more as egoistically motivated and thus a kind of duplicitous rationalization on the part of Karsten. At the end of the play there is some explicit recanting and change of worldview/weltanschauung which touches on these areas of immorality:

	Karsten Bernick [begins seriously and slowly]: My fellow citizens – it has been said through your spokesman that we stand this evening at the start of a new age – and I hope this may indeed prove right. But for this to come about we must take possession of the truth – the truth which has, wholly and comprehensively, until this evening, been reduced to a homeless wanderer in our community. [Surprise among the crowd.] So I must begin by declining the praises which you, Mr. Rørlund, according to the custom on such occasions, have showered upon me. I do not deserve them, because I have not, up to this day, been a selfless man. Even if I have not always sought financial reward, I am aware, now at least, that a desire and hunger for power, influence and esteem have been the driving force for most of my actions.

Ibsen is rather explicit yet again, this homeless wanderer metaphor asserting that truth is a neglected outcast in this community's moralistic suite. But there is something here in how he half owns up and by criticizing himself saves face in the eyes of some of the onlookers.

	Karsten Bernick: But what I do condemn myself for is that I have so often been weak enough to take the crooked byway, because I knew and feared our community’s tendency to see impure motives behind anything a man does around here. And now I come to a subject that relates to this.

Now rather than the community being moral, it is a community where people see impure motives in others. But it's almost a non sequitur; the leader Karsten does the impure things because he fears the people will always see him as impure?

	Karsten Bernick: To be his wife, Mr. Rørlund. And I have more to add. [Lowering his voice] Betty, brace yourself and be strong for what’s coming. [Loudly] I say, hats off to that man, for he has, most nobly, taken another man’s sin upon him. My fellow citizens, I seek release from this untruth; it has come close to poisoning each and every fibre in me. You shall know everything. Fifteen years ago, I was the guilty one.

This admission of guilt is the thing, he comes out and announces it and the people can choose in a social setting as a group to forgive him. So still in this community if they all want to keep him in some position of power they can and will. But in terms of justice, this literally goes to show that it didn't really matter, the truth comes out and he still retains power. It functions dually as an expression of how this inequality and untruth can persist.

	Miss Bernick: The skies are clearing. Look how light it is over the sea. The Palm Tree has good fortune with her.

	Miss Hessel: And happiness on board.

	Karsten Bernick: And we – well, we have a long serious working day awaiting us; I most of all. But let that come; just gather closely around me, you loyal and truthful women. That’s something I’ve learned too over the last few days – it is you women who are the pillars of the community.

	Miss Hessel: Then you have learned a frail wisdom, brother-in-law. [Places her hand solemnly on his shoulder] No, my friend; the spirit of truth, the spirit of freedom – they are the pillars of the community.

Ending on this note, the resolution of Karsten to have a serious working day, and that truth is the pillar of the community after the supposed pillar Karsten was so untruthful. The light over the sea not only represents a bright future for this community, but the freedom of America across the Atlantic Ocean as well. And at first the people had a duty to the pillar Karsten, but now it is more a duty to truth.

When compared with Oedipus in Oedipus Rex by Sophocles, the message is different. There, it was the truth and the preconceived fate of the guilty party that operated as the just. In the end the truth destroys Oedipus's life whereas here when some of the truths come out and all is said and done the lies can be overcome and accepted to some degree. And yet it seems things work out even over the still secret hidden lies around the murderous intentions of the so-called pillar of the community. Insofar as equality is concerned, there again Oedipus was in an asymmetric setting as king, accountable to gods, fate. However, there was a sense of equality under the truth and the truth would render the just. Recall the point was that the outcome was what was good for the community at large as it would end their plagues.

	Oedipus: But where? Where is he to be found? How can we find the traces of a crime committed long ago?

	Creon: He lives among us. If we seek, we will find; what we do not seek cannot be found.

	Oedipus: I shall not cease until I bring the truth to light. Apollo has shown, and you have shown, the duty which we owe the dead.

Here we see the exposition of Oedipus's pursuit of the truth and his perception that it is his duty to the truth. This in constrast with Karsten remaining silent in order to hide the truth of his own immorality. And it is common knowledge for the audience in advance what will happen to the murderer. Of course with truth as a glue, there is much less sanctimonious moralizing about how moral the community is, rather the oracles and deities are less generically "good."

	Oedipus: Her riddle would stagger the simple mind; it demanded the mind of a seer. Yet, put to the test, all your birds and god-craft proved useless; you had no answer. Then I came - ignorant Oedipus - I came and smothered her, using only my wit.

This is an interesting boast from Oedipus to the supposed seer Teiresias about who is or is not seeing the truth. In the end, Oedipus will see himself as the guilty one and take out his own eyes but there is no equality here; he has used his mind to attain the position of king and will use it to lose it too. He comes, ignorant Oedipus, and smothers himself. As he says later in good faith following the logical consequence of his truth and justice claims:

	Oeidpus: It was I who commanded that Thebes must cast out the one who is guilty, unholy, cursed by the heavenly gods. I was the curse of Thebes!... My sins are mine alone to bear and touch no other man.

In Twelve Angry Men by Reginald Rose, the role of truth in the pursuit of justice and desert are also exposed. There instead it was implicit that truth about the proof of guilt was the critical part of a functioning legal justice system. And in that context and setting, rather than a popular chorus of townspeople overlooking untruth, it was on the jurors and their potential oversight of injustice as inadequate instruments with which to discern this fundamental truth.

	Judge: It now becomes your duty to try and separate the facts from the fancy... I urge you to deliberate honestly and thoughtfully... If, however, there is no reasonable doubt - then you must, in good conscience, find the accused guilty.

	3rd Juror: Everybody deserves a fair trial. That's the system.

These two quotations are relatively clear: the word "fair" here for equality of treatment under the legal system. And again it is the duty to truth which the jurors can fail upon.

	7th Juror: Yeah, let's vote. Who knows, maybe we can all go home.

	Foreman: Just let's remember we've got a first degree murder charge here. If we vote "guilty", we send the accused to the electric chair.

Early on we see depictions of potentially lazy jurors, who are not incentivized to care and almost certainly have other things they would much rather be doing. Hardly ideal. And also jurors like the foreman who might really err on the side of caution because they don't want to feel personally responsible for killing the accused.

	8th Juror: Nobody has to prove otherwise. The burden of proof is on the prosecution. The defendant doesn’t have to open his mouth. That’s in the Constitution. You’ve heard of it.

So there is discussion of truth, proof, knowledge/epistemology, and also of "sides" and the group psychology involved. It is a very different work with another agenda but this is a sort of common element, that a group as a whole decides the fate of an individual. However, Oedipus and Karsten are in more powerful positions, Karsten's power allowing him to escape punishment and Oedipus being held accountable by the gods. The ongoing baseball game functions not only as a signal of how lazy and unfocused certain jurors are, but as a metaphor for these sides. Ultimately here there is a sort of persuasion, at first the persuasion rhetoric of the supposedly sharp prosecutor, and then of the juror and it casts a light on the power of the rhetorician in fact and the message and takeaway would have been very different if another juror had imposed their will and left it a hung jury.

All of these works are about equality, truth, and groups of humans navigating towards desired outcomes. If we choose to live in a society with a certain structure, then we live with the upsides and downsides of such a structure.

Ibsen, Henrik. A Doll’s House and Other Plays. Trans. Deborah Dawkin. New York: Penguin Books, 2016. ISBN 9780141194561.

Rose, Reginald. Twelve Angry Men. Intro. by David Mamet. New York: Penguin Classics, 2006. ISBN 9780143104407.

Sophocles. Oedipus Tyrannus. Eds. Luci Berkowitz and Theodore F. Brunner. New York: W.W. Norton, 1970. ISBN 9780393098747.