Brutus And The Crucible

In this terse screenplay, roles are inverted, and one supposes that justice is attained. The underlying themes about human nature, and that killing can be good remain. Read and ye shall find.

Brutus And The Crucible
Lazar Ilic

[Nina Simone Feeling Good Chill Liquid DNB
"... it's a new dawn it's a new day"
fades out as dialogue begins]

[zoom out from white from sun]

[multiple drone shots of Rome as well as people
milling around, at the market, baths, gym, etc.]

[Rome. BRUTUS's orchard. Multiple red fruiting
trees and perhaps some black elements are in view,
as well as a dying yellow flowering tree.]

[slight grey filter tint on this scene]

DANFORTH
Brutus, you mistaken me. You have most probably
seen that Caesar will become one with the Devil.
Why, you should rejoice to kill Caesar if your soul is clean!

BRUTUS [slowly talking and pacing]
It must be by his death: and for my part,
I know no personal cause to spurn at him,
But for the general. He would be crown'd:
How that might change his nature, there's the question.
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder;
And that craves wary walking. Crown him? -- that; --
And then, I grant, we put a sting in him,
That at his will he may do danger with.
The abuse of greatness is, when it disjoins
Remorse from power: and, to speak truth of Caesar,
I have not known when his affections sway'd [slowly on "have not known"]
More than his reason.

[a white dove flies in and lands on the tree
behind DANFORTH and begins to clean its feathers]

DANFORTH
I think you mistake your duty here.
It matters nothing what Caesar thought -
he is convicted of the unnatural want for power.
Your soul alone is the issue here, Brutus,
and you will in fact prove its whiteness.

[dove flies away in background]

BRUTUS
Shall Rome stand under one man's awe? What, Rome?
My ancestors did from the streets of Rome
The Tarquin drive, when he was call'd a king.
'Speak, strike, redress!' Am I entreated
To speak and strike? O Rome, I make thee promise:
If the redress will follow, thou receivest
Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus!
Soul white enough to keep it from such canines.

[now a black raven lands on another tree]

DANFORTH
You are entreated to speak and strike, Brutus. [emphatic]
Go then, actualize the petition. The knife is in hand.

BRUTUS
Between the acting of a dreadful thing
And the first motion, all the interim is [motion a little at "motion"]
Like a phantasma, or a hideous dream:
The Genius and the mortal instruments
Are then in council; and the state of man,
Like to a little kingdom, suffers then
The nature of an insurrection.
I speak of my own sins. [solemnly]

DANFORTH
Is this not a lie? If it is a lie I will not
accept it. The people of Rome will not accept it.
You must be honest here. It is a hideous dream
to both you and Caesar. Who weeps for Caesar,
weeps for corruption. No more innocents dropping by
lottery. End the unjust system.

BRUTUS
If these be motives weak, break off betimes,
And every man hence to his idle bed;
So let high-sighted tyranny range on,
Till each man drop by lottery.
I do think I see some shred of goodness in Brutus.

LIGARIUS
I also see the shred of goodness.
By all the gods that Romans bow before,
I here discard my sickness! Soul of Rome!
Brave son, derived from honourable loins!
Thou, like an exorcist, hast conjured up
My mortified spirit. Now bid me run,
And I will strive with things impossible;
Yea, get the better of them. What's to do?

BRUTUS
A piece of work that will make sick men whole.

LIGARIUS
But are not some whole that we must make sick?

BRUTUS
That must we also. What it is, my Caius,
I shall unfold to thee, as we are going
To whom it must be done.

LIGARIUS
Set on your foot,
And with a heart new-fired I follow you,
To do I know not what: but it sufficeth
That Brutus leads me on.

BRUTUS
Follow me, then.

[zoom in to BRUTUS'S right eye black pupil]

Scene 2

[zoom out black from cave in nature near Rome]

[Nearly muted audio of city and
some degree of red and gold filters]

[Verdi Requiem Dies Irae/Day Of Wrath or
Carl Orff Carmina Burana O Fortuna
shots of stone Rome architecture and few people
and clear shots of light blue sky and white clouds]

[Rome. Before the Capitol; the Senate sitting above.]

[shot of Caesar from slightly below up to face]

[now clear audio of Caesar]

CAESAR
I must prevent thee, Cimber.
These couchings and these lowly courtesies
Might fire the blood of ordinary men,
And turn pre-ordinance and first decree
Into the law of children. Be not fond,
To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood
That will be thaw'd from the true quality
With that which melteth fools; I mean, sweet words,
Low-crooked court'sies and base spaniel-fawning.
Thy brother by decree is banished:
If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him,
I spurn thee like a cur out of my way.
Know, Caesar doth not wrong, nor without cause
Will he be satisfied.

[standard multiple shots of dialogue
capture some Caesar reaction shots too]

BRUTUS
I kiss thy hand, but not in flattery, Caesar;
Desiring thee that Publius Cimber may
Have an immediate freedom of repeal.
I can. And there's your first marvel, that I can.
So I cannot withhold from you the perfection of
your punishment.

CAESAR
I could be well moved, if I were as you:
If I could pray to move, prayers would move me:
But I am constant as the northern star,
Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality
There is no fellow in the firmament.
The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks,
They are all fire and every one doth shine,
But there's but one in all doth hold his place:
So in the world; 'tis furnish'd well with men,
And men are flesh and blood, and apprehensive;
Yet in the number I do know but one
That unassailable holds on his rank,
Unshaked of motion: and that I am he,
Let me a little show it, even in this;
That I was constant Cimber should be banish'd,
And constant do remain to keep him so.
But it were no witch I blame you for per se,
the witch of lust for power, a curse of mankind.

[still shot from a couple meters away above looking down]

[CASCA first, then the other Conspirators and BRUTUS stab CAESAR]

CAESAR
Et tu, Brute! Then fall, Caesar.

[Instrumental of Hudson Mohawke God Level except for
"our father... you don't see murder like this this often"
The final drumroll crashes, then heightens violently.
The new sun is pouring upon Brutus's face,
and the drums rattle like bones in the morning air.]

Shakespeare, William. Julius Caesar (The Pelican Shakespeare). Ed. William Montgomery. New York: Penguin Books, 2000 or later. ISBN 9780143128601.

Miller, Arthur. The Crucible. New York: Penguin Classics, 1995 or later. ISBN 9780142437339.

Finale Reflection
Lazar Ilic

My understanding of the creative and conceptual strategies came in part from the helpful examples Dr. Lang posted. I also have read numerous screenplays and so I understood there exist things one can have in mind in advance and comment on in such a format. I thought that doing an expressive recorded "radio drama" production might be OK and that even potentially that the screenplay could be read aloud with some effect.

I was trying to make an argument about dictatorship and the hysteria around witchcraft e.g. the power of the court and church. That Proctor's desire to do good for the town of Salem vis a vis the hangings can function as an analog for Brutus and the city of Rome, wanting to take down Caesar prior to tyranny. The justice is inverted though, Proctor protecting and Brutus killing. And so here Danforth is re cast as good in encouraging Brutus's contemplations.

I evaluate myself highly. I was the sole contributor to this project and planned out multiple editing sessions. This process led to a better outcome and production than if I had merely attempted to do it in one sitting. I did primary ideation and consulted lightly on details.