Group: Me, Myself, and I (but I will be sure to read the others' submissions)

Setup: 3.1GB file via 15.6in 1920x1080 medium performance monitour and low performance native DAC and speakers in a quiet apartment.

The first thing I noted was the initial sound effects. I was not certain if these were added post facto in the production of the file or if they have some speakers or analog live SFX there. The mics on the actors were relatively discreet. Yet they speak rather loud so just how acoustics were there is a bit unclear to me. To be sure the people in the crowd would be in a full sensory experience which us home viewers are not, and frankly this aids focus. We see live trumpets which give some indication here with respect to live production.

The costume, makeup, and hair design is worth commenting on. It looked pretty high budget and well executed to me, though some minor details seemed modern and not time period factual like zippers. Of course the general health of the actors is probably much higher than that of the humans in the time of Shakespeare.

As for the Globe Theater, well, the back ground is not quite so dynamic. A film production could actually have scenery and varying surroundings. In fact, I have attended productions in Austin at the Long Center where the back ground was more dynamic. But this is part of the more authentic play so we are left to focus on the acting it self.

The acting is central. I have attended a number of high school productions and these actors are consummate professionals. They know their lines and are well practiced. They are extremely trained and skilled at minor facial expressions, bodily movements, minutiae which are very easy to forget as a casual in say a class room reading setting. I don't often view drama, so this course has been novel for me! Of course the fluctuation in pitch is rather volatile compared to natural modern English speech. Voice cracking in "affections" and little hand motions in this dialogue e.g.

Of course we are tasked with commenting on the casting and the most critical central casting choice here was Michelle Terry, a woman, as Hamlet. But it functions! Her eye brow movements and emotivity work as all the actors act on as if there is nothing odd. Does this choice subvert or change the message? For me, of course it does. I personally thought she overly projected agitation. One might think this (her being rather small) would really change the powered dynamic but the presence of the sword prop mutes this effect.

The eye movements in the spirit of the father and sadness communicated therein, slower blinking speed, brought me to eyes in this production which often wander and kind of gaze upwards in an unnatural way.

Of course Horatio, Laertes, Guildenstern are also acted by women and Ophelia and Rosalind are inverted to men and this further changes the dynamics in a major way.

As we are tasked with primarily discussing casting I want to beyond gender in to age and the particular actors. But clearly Shakespeare intended for these roles to not be acted in this way. But clearly one can choose to cast whomever one wants and even further remix an extant script! I was a bit surprised by how old some of the actors were. Polonius and Claudius were both a bit older than I imagined. During the "vile phrase" "beautified" scene I thought the little chuckles were nice and some of their dialogues very entertaining.

Frankly the casting of Claudius is important. He is the bad guy, the villain, and I thought the man was good for the role.

The hand movements start to grow complex to the point of being almost comical or campy, an art it self. "Custom of exercise" literally doing jumping jacks and this whole scene was really grandiose. I was very surprised by this.

Polonius is my favourite I can buy his vocal performances. I thought race changed pretty much nothing.

As the play goes on I really grow to dislike the Hamlet acting, she sounds far too angry to me and fails to sell sadness. The pacing in the speech of pretty much all the other actors is more pleasant to me.

Ophelia singing "dead and gone" and in to "grave did not go" and "we know what we are but not what we may be" is notable I mean at this point we are accustomed to the genders and actors. When things get extreme, they get more extreme than extreme. All this yelling and slapping the ground and so on it is a bit heavy handed.

The final scene for me the power it was a bit off I did not like it and I think other productions overall make the meaning more sincere. Horatio is a much better role to cast as a female or perhaps her acting was just vastly superior in my judgement. Hamlet was too angry.

I don't know that I would want to meet these actors and ask them questions; I would probably smile and tell them it was a fun, energetic, performance. I might ask why so many excessively complicated hand movements.

In summary, I think the choice to invert genders had a profound first order influence on the play. Some scenes were funnier for it but overall I would prefer a more traditional casting. The most fundamental core structural narrative and themes remain pretty much the same for me but carry less strongly through. If I were to list analyses of the play Hamlet I would say, yes, that most themes are represented fairly well. I suppose I ought to touch on justice and injustice and there I want to say that in fact it is perhaps the case that some of Terry's deliveries really emphasized the injustice and I had an easier time caring or biting on those lines.

The actual production value of this file was pretty high.