Law Abiding Citizen Reponse
Lazar Ilic

The casting and production choices made by the directors and producers of Law Abiding Citizen were intentional and serve mostly to endorse the status quo contemporary American criminal justice system by comically painting a portrayal of an unjust man who is hell bent on getting back at the system.

In terms of alignment with Aristotle this film is fundamentally orthogonal; its claim is that literal retribution is not just.

Insofar as arguing about justice and injustice in the film is concerned there is quite a lot of dialogue on these topics. It is shallow, jokey, and campy. It consciously degenerates on the end of the Clyde character in to whiny cliched rationalizations for over the top violence. In a V For Vendetta setting there is a real genuine leftist rise against the system sentiment apropos to the current cultural moment. However, in this film is a casual endorsement of America and an awful lot of killing and violence.

It was extremely unrealistic, and a bit nihilistic but there is perhaps an element of catharsis, of release, at the very end when Nick takes matters in to his own hands and deals with Clyde, the supposed titular law abiding citizen.

This isn't a Greek tragedy but I referenced some of the source writing, Classical Resource Center, the University of Hawaii English website, as well as our course documents.

Plot: There was a whole plot line, it moved as Hollywood action flicks can be known to. There was supposed to be quite a lot of surprise and shock value, twisting and turning, as we are in the position of Nick not being able to fully predict Clyde's actions or his abilities to maneuver external things. We are supposed to pity the Nick character and think he is generally set to do good.

Character: Nick is brave and tries to do his job as well as protect his own family and long term career interests. Minor other lawyer characters were not really too notable it was about Nick and Clyde first and foremost, the Clyde character being severely comical and unrealistic.

Thought: See Notes From Viewing below for light commentary on specific moments in the film. The Clyde monologues become mockeries of retributory justice especially when he moves to kill a lawyer who really was just doing his job as a part of his supposed "justice" for his killed family.

Diction: See Notes From Viewing below for more on diction.

Spectacle: This is sort of the crux of the matter it is a comedy action film and so one question is really do the vulgarities leave the viewer thinking how wack society would be if we decided Clyde was in the right and this sort of stunting was just. And I would hazard to judge my verdict that the answer is "no".

Notes From Viewing:

The film opens with an over the top brutal violent scene of some men breaking in to a house, stealing things, stabbing a man, and walking away with a young girl. A lot of cuts to up close shots of the man with tape over his mouth struggling. It's a hook which then leads to exposition.

A legal setting and Jamie Foxx bantering about cases and juries liking him. "It's an imperfect system. And we its imperfect servants... some justice is better than no justice at all."

In terms of casting and justice I mean Jamie Foxx appears as a well spoken, highly educated black man. He makes a deal because "this is how the justice system works." Frankly the acting in the court room scene is a bit comical as are the following lines about Marcus Aurelius. It does not seem this is to be a serious legal drama. Filters pass on reporters and again the nature of deal cutting for a DA from a "cooperating witness" is reinforced exposition as the victim of the crime stands look on defeated. One knows this is an action film so we have an idea that perhaps there will be renegade justice and the Jamie Foxx character might come to understand and choose to not act on information he has.

At this point in terms of production I mean lawyers are lawyers and they wear nice clothes, and seem maybe rich and out of touch. Whereas the victim is losing money on a case for justice and seems disheveled and distraught as one might be. If, however, he was a jacked dude the appearance would be very different and the way it would impact us as a viewer would change. I would say that the casting and makeup work on Darby and his mannerisms and beard especially as a low brow white person criminal type.

Now we fast forward 10 years with a text blurb on screen. This is an interesting trick and it leads into discussions about "bad guys" in the kitchen with kids. The screenplay feels weak and cliche.

Then there is a mash up bouncing between a cello recital of the daughter and the death penalty of the contemporary US justice system gone awry as the lawyers look on. It's a plot to be sure.

Now this cop who turns out to be the victim pulling his revenge stunt on the white trash Darby character seems very assertive, planned, and methodical. It's clinical, something odd about so many drugs and syringes and medicalish instruments but really the lighting in this film is very odd, a lot of un natural shadows cast across faces in what most humans would not choose to use as lighting in nearly any real world setting.

Again, the dialogue is weak, it's supposed justice from the supposed cop and this is knowing full well that pretending to be a cop is a crime. But one thinks the camera recording of the saw is all truly over the top macabre and this flick really is for bored teens at the mall. The Halloween tier decapitated skull adds to this idea. The box office and streaming money incentives of mid to big budget Hollywood are not quite aligned with analytic think pieces on justice.

Now the victim and retribution artist is jacked, donning a "daddy" bracelet made for him by his own daughter. It becomes personal when he decides to mail his little torture film to the lawyer's personal home address and his daughter cries, seeing it. A lot of shots of cameras and films here and talk of recording and capturing like it pans in to a shot over a security camera.

It is odd that he confesses to arranging for both of the murders of Ames and Darby and yet again we pan back to the camera. The whole thing is melodramatic and "it's what you can prove in court. Didn't you tell me that once?" The whole plot line is itself a joke, being assigned to the same DA and all.

It is right here I can make a comment on the Aristotelian when Nick and Clyde banter about confessions and things in return and reciprocity. The deal is that there is a system and we have yet to see what the system will provide as a result for Clyde. Now the literal mattress and warden talk... this is supposed to be funny.

So one comes to ponder whether a satire comedy film can still say something, or perhaps even more potently make a claim about the US justice system. And again the notion of reciprocity is brought up explicitly. Of course, the lawyers really are instruments of the system and they really are tasked with presenting a case and convicting Clyde here. There is something to me mildly humorous about these court scenes because it really is the case that a judge is a human who plays a large role, not only the lawyers, and testimony givers. Here, the judge is casual and will set bail and Clyde starts ranting about the justice system again. It's clown tier. Again, the dialogue between Clyde and Nick in this second confession it's supposed to be kind of meta about good and evil and film but frankly I grow weary.

I tried to make some point about hacking the criminal justice system in my Gone Girl essay for this course and here I suppose this Clyde character is a hodge podge of violent outbursty anger of impulses really hoping to be intelligent and actualize all of this in his command over the justice system.

One does wonder just that Clyde is capable of functioning and thinking on a generic prison diet and bed actually it makes on think about real life prisoners who actually can't really function well in such conditions and are thus less competent at pursuing their own justice.

Anyways Clyde is comic book justice, and it's not something one empathizes with I mean he is a brutal monster murderer too and now Jamie Foxx is miffed at all of this as are we, the viewer. It isn't good faith railing against the system, at this point it's more about entertainment value and the viewer being curious what will happen next as Nick walks in to a stagey dark solitary cell where Clyde sits.

Lady justice balancing scales on Nick's desk leads in to some corny nonsense about top notch killers and one senses even more action and entertainment value. It's no shock when the judge explodes bloodily right in front of Nick. Frankly I think most lawyers do have relatively boring jobs as was alluded to earlier and this is kind of a joke about how Nick has something beyond legalese text file writing to do.

There is something mildly annoying about how it's the white guy who is supposedly the genius tactician 20 moves ahead and the black guy who is behind and incapable of seeing future actions, but this effect is toned down because Nick is surrounded by old white men who are also in his position.

I am glad Sarah asks Nick if he would cut the deal with Darby now 10 years later and Nick is not weak here he says he would and that it is about making choices. "But did you make the right choice? We made the right choice, right?" from the former legal trainee/understudy.

Now Sarah's casting as a very pretty white girl obviously goes to increase revenue but it does bring up casually the very real fact that a lot of kids dream of being lawyers and think it's all that. When they get there after years and years of hard work and the day by day actions of law school they might really find just how much injustice does take place inside the system.

I have never seen a Jamie Foxx film so as an aside I thought he did a pretty good job with minor facial expressions too and was the best actor in this. I really wasn't a huge fan of Clyde.

The mayor scene is interesting, a powerful black woman actually sneering at them and standing for perhaps the public's low opinion of government attorneys.

In terms of these counter points I find the scene with Nick beating Clyde up outside of the prison... I would hope this sort of thing never happens in reality because it is actually illegal and would risk the success of a case.

"The system... changed you." It's a lot of banter but at the end of the day one recalls how egotistical he was earlier about his own personal prosecution rate and how this system aligns the incentives of the individual lawyers with the broader societal goals. Like, I don't know, if Nick was a more egotistical character he could still function highly as a DA and I would imagine there exist real world DAs who are not actually that intrinsically motivated by "justice" but happen to be very good and high performing at their chosen job/career.

Now when Nick says "fuck his civil rights" and again becomes himself a criminal to fight a criminal one hopes he isn't walking in to a trap. I don't know at this point Aristotelian per se it kind of points to an eye for an eye making people blind, the Biblical (recurs in this film in oaths and elsewhere), and the slippery slope of actually violating these written laws and more and more unjust acts following instead of stopping all the killing at 1 like would happen most of the time in the real world. This is the point in the Athena trial almost, to end retributory killings because as a society at large we prefer/want a system where this gets ended as soon as possible.

There is an emphasis on dark wood furniture elements throughout and "laws to bend" and "activate" in the bomb context. It's Hollywood so we know the outcome will be "good". They use the word "principles" a lot and Nick is correct that murdering all those people would be unprincipled of Clyde, obviously separating tens of people from their own daughters. Nick makes a point about regret and how you can only affect future actions but then makes another claim about living with actions and the consequences of actions for the rest of your life. It's all very corny as Clyde blows himself up following Nick's movement of the bomb but this is the outcome and one supposes it is more just than any other outcome at this point really.

In terms of our actual contemporary cultural moment, it is primarily about the topic of our first response post in fact Kyle Rittenhouse and Kenosha. There one of the primary points actually has to do with medium funded public attorneys against extremely well funded (donations solicited) defense attorneys and notions of self defense that would not exist if the 2nd Amendment to the US Constitution was abolished.