The scene: Oedipus and Teiresias

The films: William and Plummer

In the William production everyone is masked. The scenery is simply and the clothings drape with colours, perhaps symbolic. Teriesias here is beneath Oedipus whose lilts, rhythm, and cadence in "sky reveal, the plague is among us" and "murderers" and "rescue me" is very emphatic. Meanwhile Teiresias is oddly moving, turning away from this powerful king Oedipus portrayal. Here when Teiresias says "than to be wise and suffer for it... let me go back" we see the past and future, this duality, the powerful sighted king who does not see the truth and the opposite. The relative visual simplicity and especially the delivery produces an unsubtle effect of showing Oedipus' truth-seeking leading towards his destruction. Both voices become raised and rather rapid in a confrontation while Teiresias quite literally physically attempts to escape, hitting a wall, and not leak out the truth! Oedipus enraged makes the accusation which triggers "you are the defiler of this land". As they continue to dance it is voices which leads to "looks upon the sun" and "Apollo... doom".

The different stylistic emphases in the Plummer version make the effect rather different. The back ground drone and "didactic master of the finite and the infinite", here out in a much more open and unmasked setting with Oedipus below Teiresias (thus we see the blue sky from a camera below) now Oedipus seems less curious and less powerful, merely following the path of fate. Here, Teiresias says "the truth has made me strong" calmly after a now irate Oedipus slurred him about lacking eyes. Teiresias seems more powerful in comparison and the "you force it out of me" falls a little flat. Certainly here there is symbolism in Oedipus climbing upwards, up the stairs, towards the truth. However, when Teiresias says "you yourself murder the man whose murderer you seek" the reaction is terse and angry and we hear "Apollo is enough".

So in terms of the filmic these are profoundly distinct productions. The audience relates much more easily in my judgement to the Plummer portrayal; Oedipus more normal for a modern viewer and perhaps easier to empathize with in this first half of this dialogue. In terms of a claim one may assert that given that the former would be in masks as was custom for the Athenians it is constrained to affecting the audience via vocals and movements more and not facial movements. The message here is a bit trickier for me to say with respect to future audiences. I read the writing and imagined humans so for me the Plummer version resounds more and especially my understanding of Greek mythology and the deities referenced therein.