This precludes modern film festivals. The monetary facts are really shocking. Wow, they really literally allocated so much wealth to this and thought that acting in a play was a form of so-called ecstasy up there with imbibing alcohol!

Dr. Garland sets the context in the unease over the recent revolution away from the Areopagus. He rightfully and factually reminds us of the novelty and uncertainty surrounding Athenian direct democracy. See I actually read the plays on my own time, not in a brutal 7 hour live viewing session of one opportunity.

Dr. Garland recounds the plot and asserts that we are on the edge of our seats during the ballot counting and Athena's casting of the deciding vote. It is in fact a human and fallible institution, and that is in line with my reading.

When it comes to the Furies and Delphi purificationm this also resonates with my reading. Their ugliness does symbolize the agonizing torment. And the maidens who welcome them does point to the fact that the Athenians need, or certainly benefit from, them.

For example from the Furies "we long to reveal out art, our terror, noew to declare our right to steer the lives of men, we all conspire, we dance! We are the just and upright, we maintain."

And, after Athena declares the "finest men of Athens, return and decide the issue fairly, truly - bound to our oaths, out spirits bent on justice" the Furies say "we loose a lethal tide to sweep the world! Man to man foresees his neighbour's torments, groping to cure his own."

This messaging continues rather clearly and precisely in The Eumenides.

Now this isn't Cannes, the kritai are selected by lot. The Oresteia won, in part for its noted novelties, such as commoner character orators. I am not so sure about Dr. Garland's value claims on prestige and Greek society. Surely it was competitive but perhaps the story about the choregos says otherwise, and the Greeks really were this way. To be sure they did not have cinema so these biannual festival events must have been entertaining for much of the populus.