This assignment was brought up in the course syllabus, and it is an interesting one. Of course their production is not for a big pay check, rather one hopes it is for some sort of other end, a good purpose, and a good usage of the prisoners' time. Going in of course I know that some prisoners in the USA do work, and have some incentives with money and with earlier release to behave in a certain way. And, I know that prisoners in other countries face other conditions and that these conditions are ever subject to public scrutiny. Society at large wants to punish but also to set up a system where people can be reintegrated in to society as functioning members upon release. Or perhaps some of these people are on life sentences but still find meaning in their human relations and inner spirit.

In any case, early on they discuss the theme of forgiveness in Prospero in The Tempest. And Curt says "great actors are great observers of life". And so, the prisoners involved in this production might hope to achieve education.

The prisoners talk about their own life histories and reflect on e.g. Caliban, playing monsters, and observing human nature.

Frankly, some of this falls flat to me, it is an alright activity for prisoners but I would really need to see some more objective evidence of the impact of such programs. I certainly could consider this a redemption in a real sense if it really has a good effect on these prisoners, and they can say it does, and that means something. Like the sexual abuser used phrases such as "live honorably" and "redeem my life" and I don't know very concretely or precisely what any of this means.

It's more salient in lines like "With my nobler reason, 'gainst my fury do I take part-- the rarer action is in virtue then in vengeance." This is Shakespeare, and I know writing and saying things actually changes people. People who choose to say these sorts of things do normally do more actions in line with those things and I feel there is something here. And "I've worked almost exclusively with Shakespeare for years. And he never ceases to teach me. He's my mentor. His gift, truly was an insight into human behavior. Because in his plays I can find human behavior that is as true now as it was years ago." It sounds better than like they just have fun performing some old dead dude's writings.

My statistically inclined mind would think to note that in regards to empathy building, any sort of positive group human interaction in a prison would lead to it. And that perhaps performing Shakespeare as a team, together, is one of the most humanistic building exercises. For it gets them working cooperatively on a shared goal/target and also thinking about different humans in their characters. Certainly this film presents some likable prisoners and leaves the viewer hoping that they have found their redemption and become more likely to succeed in society.