I considered selecting Hell Or High Water, The Other Guys, and Witness For The Prosecution amongst others but decided on Gone Girl by David Fincher and Gillian Flynn. The screenplay .pdf file adds value to a proper analysis of this oeuvre.

Gone Girl is about the disappearance of a girl named Amy and the investigation which commences involving her husband Nick. A central theme has to do with perspective, the true and the false, and the observations and measurements which can be made by criminal investigators. There is also much exposition of implicit and explicit bias and group psychology. It is fiction yet there remains some semblance of a pessimistic realist bent. The score composition throughout by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross lends a sense of the sinister, and adds emotive and motive flare. The first viewing is interesting for one does not know yet what is to come. Ben Affleck is good but it is Rosamund Pike's acting which truly elevates this film.

Early on we learn of Amy's intelligence and the potential for bias in the investigator Boney who was fond of Amazing Amy, a book series by Amy's parents which ostensibly leads to a very positive public perception of the "real" Amy.

Then the viewer begins to see cuts of narrative flash backs or stories about the past narrated by Amy, depicting her side of things in the past as she is gone in the present. This method of story telling is not too rare, however the vocal performances are of note and contain unhappiness and discontent on top of the literal content.

It is set up so that we understand Nick's innocence however he says things like "I feel like I'm on a Law & Order episode". Perhaps a bit of winky referentiality, there is asymmetry for he teaches writing however it can sound suspicious. Nick generally comes across as "sociopathic" in his failure to act adequately roused by events and in particular an image file leads to Nick being publically shamed on the television service news networks "paitron saint to wife killers everywhere" as introduction for the lawyer character. This then creates a common knowledge idea and perceptions about Nick, his personality and guilt.

This ongoing duality between writing, written records, and the tick by tick of reality plays out in literally seeing Amy hand writing a diary. Infofar as films on wrongful conviction go, in this case the diary is critical for it effectively casts Nick as guilty in the minds of observers. And in Gone Girl it is Amy who consciously creates this direction of wrongful conviction!

"Promise me we'll never be like them." "Like who?" "All those awful couples we know. Those wives who treat their men like dancing monkeys to be trained and paraded..." there are many moments of prescience and clever witty transitions from one thought in to another via linguistic segue.

"Everybody's examining me and projecting their shit on me... and not be judged" as Nick says succinctly. The more we see little judgements of Nick based on not much evidence the more we realize this film is very meta and another central theme here is in fact on the coverage of crime drama news in modernity.

A very interesting single scene in the narrative takes place inside Nick's house when the police deliver a sequence of lines to Nick which very directly takes things from missing persons to Nick being the suspect of murder. Images of a neighbour Nick claimed to not know with Amy, unknown pregnancy, marriage woes, crime scene incongruencies suggesting staging, kitchen blood, debt, life insurance etc. and his denials and rebuttals and loud arguing. The acting is terse and tense. It is a forceful scene when Nick yells and they berate and he says "this is insane" after smashing something violently and insisting on having a lawyer.

This particular scene is very pivotal and highlights all of these asymmetries. We feel Nick is innocent however the way in which he portrays him self to the police here and the evidence they now have amassed really do all point towards him being a murderer.

"I am so much happier now that I'm dead... gone". Finally a crux where we see present Amy at last rendered from cool tones in the previous scenes to warmer ones. Her dissatisfaction equated with "He took and took from me until I no longer existed. That's murder. Let the punishment fit the crime." And we see Amy's set up of the framing, acted exquisitely, a massive sequence of shots with heavy handed acting which emphasizes her manipulative ability. It is a massive juxtaposition on the female and male with respect to Nick's complete and total awkwardness and inability to convince others or play a role he strategically ought to have.

This intelligent girl was capable of producing quite a lot in reality with just a little bit of effort.

Insofar as there is a thesis to these two scenes in the juncture half way through the film it is that a human can choose to nearly completely manipulate the extant justice system because those detections and measurements which can be made are capable of being fooled and tricked and duped. The people fail to serve the ideals for they are humans embedded in the social fabric of reality and all it includes with respect to status. It is not a critique of the justice system as much as it is the path in to the second half of the film and an entertaining one which I would imagine really speaks to some female viewers.

These rapid cuts, each of which required tons of man hours of set up, are cinematographically a little extreme and one can closely examine each decision and how it affects the viewer.

In this film Fincher, more explicitly than in The Social Network where most viewers, writers, and critics failed to pick up on the fact that the entire film is depositions rather than fact, studies the construction of perceptions e.g. when Nick and his lawyer discuss painting out Amy as a "mind-fucker of the first degree".

As an aside, the television scenes to me are humorous because I hate television service and so "a woman carrying life inside her... the third leading cause of death among pregnant women" is of course a statistics and linguistics joke because pregnant women tend to be very careful to avoid death. [And often means or averages in news articles are very misleading without a full distribution analysis.] And the characters in the film just love it and eat it all up.

Now the lawyer talks with Nick about the rote practicing and preparation of oration in order to optimize towards a desired legal and practical life outcome. And the female sister says "trained monkey" echoing earlier on men. And it is the lawyer who is the expert and understands this is the proper route for an incompetent man like Nick. "Nick, this case is about what people think of you".

In one scene preparing with the lawyer for the television we see all the characters' reflections in the mirror in every single shot with the light on Nick's face only visible in the mirror reflection, perhaps symbolic.

There is a study of human eyes during Nick's television appearance when Neil Patrick Harris is watching Amy watch and Amy's eyes are boggled. Nick is asked to look at the lens at Amy through the television and says he will be the man he promised to be and loves her.

"Kidnapping? The story's insane" from Nick echoing earlier word choice as we hear Amy's narrative. It is overdone but we see that somehow she gets away despite her nonsense. Boney leads the inquiry but the other cops fall for Amy's acting and we get perhaps another note on this thesis, on the inadequacy of the police and criminal justice system here to convict Amy. These reflections and projections who is doing the forgiving here "we thank you for forgiving Nick" from Amy and Boney and "the Feds" comes up meaning Amy will not be pursued.

As a meditation on acting and roles and how humans behave in positions with incentives versus alone the ending is of note with Amy's line "the only time you liked your self was when you were trying to be someone this cunt might like". It is profound in conjunction with the closing line "What are you thinking? How are you feeling? What have we done to each other? What will we do?"