So I am now like thinking about a screenplays corpus. And a television screenplays corpus. And the Netflix and YouTube to text corpus. And whether or not our Machine Learning algorithms could produce more useful or additionally useful information from those textual corpi. And like trying to give a film a metric based upon how generically Bad-Good the dichotomy duals present in the narrative are or if it is one of those supposedly subtler more value judgement neutrally type of flicks. Furthermore I thought of maybe doing a prediction task in The Big Bang Theory like predict where the laugh tracks were. Something about surprise functions and humour detection. Or intended humour. Unclear. Dark humour. Half interesting stuff really. Genre prediction is OK. Maybe also try and evaluate the neutrality of News sources supposedly.

One can easily Google and skim some lists on top of actual projects other people did to impress firms... such as:

	Awesome Deep Learning Project Ideas

https://github.com/NirantK/awesome-project-ideas

A curated list of practical deep learning and machine learning project ideas

30+ ideas
Relevant to both the academia and industry
Ranges from beginner friendly to research projects
Contents
Text - With some topics about Natural language processing

Forecasting - Most of the topics in this section is about Time Series and similar forecasting challenges

Recommendation Systems

Vision - With topics about image and video processing

Covid19 - Multi or Single Domain ideas from the Covid19 theme

Music and Audio - These topics are about combining ideas from language and audio to understand music

Conclusion

Covid19
Bing Coronavirus

Classify Bing Queries as either specific (e.g. about a specific location) or generic. You might have to figure out a more exact definition of specific or generic though
Dataset: BingCoronavirusQuerySet
Covid Clinical Data

Rank and sort high risk patients using clinical data. Pick an interpretable approach if you can.
Dataset: CovidClinicalData
If you haven't already, checkout Kaggle's Covid19 Section as well. It has datasets and ideas both.

Text
Autonomous Tagging of StackOverflow Questions

Make a multi-label classification system that automatically assigns tags for questions posted on a forum such as StackOverflow or Quora.
Dataset: StackLite or 10% sample
Keyword/Concept identification

Identify keywords from millions of questions
Dataset: StackOverflow question samples by Facebook
Topic identification

Multi-label classification of printed media articles to topics
Dataset: Greek Media monitoring multi-label classification
Natural Language Understanding
Sentence to Sentence semantic similarity

Can you identify question pairs that have the same intent or meaning?
Dataset: Quora question pairs with similar questions marked
Fight online abuse

Can you confidently and accurately tell whether a particular comment is abusive?
Dataset: Toxic comments on Kaggle
Open Domain question answering

Can you build a bot which answers questions according to the student's age or her curriculum?
Facebook's FAIR is built in a similar way for Wikipedia.
Dataset: NCERT books for K-12/school students in India, NarrativeQA by Google DeepMind and SQuAD by Stanford
Automatic text summarization

Can you create a summary with the major points of the original document?
Abstractive (write your own summary) and Extractive (select pieces of text from original) are two popular approaches
Dataset: CNN and DailyMail News Pieces by Google DeepMind
Copy-cat Bot

Generate plausible new text which looks like some other text
Obama Speeches? For instance, you can create a bot which writes some new speeches in Obama's style
Trump Bot? Or a Twitter bot which mimics @realDonaldTrump
Narendra Modi bot saying "doston"? Start by scrapping off his Hindi speeches from his personal website
Example Dataset: English Transcript of Modi speeches
Check mlm/blog for some hints.

Sentiment Analysis
Do Twitter Sentiment Analysis on tweets sorted by geography and timestamp.
Dataset: Tweets sentiment tagged by humans
Forecasting
Univariate Time Series Forecasting

How much will it rain this year?
Dataset: 45 years of rainfall data
Multi-variate Time Series Forecasting

How polluted will your town's air be? Pollution Level Forecasting
Dataset: Air Quality dataset
Demand/load forecasting

Find a short term forecast on electricity consumption of a single home
Dataset: Electricity consumption of a household
Predict Blood Donation

We're interested in predicting if a blood donor will donate within a given time window.
More on the problem statement at Driven Data.
Dataset: UCI ML Datasets Repo
Recommendation systems
Movie Recommender

Can you predict the rating a user will give on a movie?
Do this using the movies that user has rated in the past, as well as the ratings similar users have given similar movies.
Dataset: Netflix Prize and MovieLens Datasets
Search + Recommendation System

Predict which Xbox game a visitor will be most interested in based on their search query
Dataset: BestBuy
Can you predict Influencers in the Social Network?

How can you predict social influencers?
Dataset: PeerIndex
Vision
Image classification

Object recognition or image classification task is how Deep Learning shot up to it's present-day resurgence
Datasets:
CIFAR-10
ImageNet
MS COCO is the modern replacement to the ImageNet challenge
MNIST Handwritten Digit Classification Challenge is the classic entry point
Character recognition (digits) is the good old Optical Character Recognition problem
Bird Species Identification from an Image using the Caltech-UCSD Birds dataset dataset
Diagnosing and Segmenting Brain Tumors and Phenotypes using MRI Scans
Dataset: MICCAI Machine Learning Challenge aka MLC 2014
Identify endangered right whales in aerial photographs
Dataset: MOAA Right Whale
Can computer vision spot distracted drivers?
Dataset: State Farm Distracted Driver Detection on Kaggle
Bone X-Ray competition

Can you identify if a hand is broken from a X-ray radiographs automatically with better than human performance?
Stanford's Bone XRay Deep Learning Competition with MURA Dataset
Image Captioning

Can you caption/explain the photo a way human would?
Dataset: MS COCO
Image Segmentation/Object Detection

Can you extract an object of interest from an image?
Dataset: MS COCO, Carvana Image Masking Challenge on Kaggle
Large-Scale Video Understanding

Can you produce the best video tag predictions?
Dataset: YouTube 8M
Video Summarization

Can you select the semantically relevant/important parts from the video?
Example: Fast-Forward Video Based on Semantic Extraction
Dataset: Unaware of any standard dataset or agreed upon metrics? I think YouTube 8M might be good starting point.
Style Transfer

Can you recompose images in the style of other images?
Dataset: fzliu on GitHub shared target and source images with results
Chest XRay

Can you detect if someone is sick from their chest XRay? Or guess their radiology report?
Dataset: MIMIC-CXR at Physionet
Clinical Diagnostics: Image Identification, classification & segmentation

Can you help build an open source software for lung cancer detection to help radiologists?
Link: Concept to clinic challenge on DrivenData
Satellite Imagery Processing for Socioeconomic Analysis

Can you estimate the standard of living or energy consumption of a place from night time satellite imagery?
Reference for Project details: Stanford Poverty Estimation Project
Satellite Imagery Processing for Automated Tagging

Can you automatically tag satellite images with human features such as buildings, roads, waterways and so on?
Help free the manual effort in tagging satellite imagery: Kaggle Dataset by DSTL, UK
Music
Music/Audio Recommendation Systems

Can you tell if two songs are similar using their sound or lyrics?
Dataset: Million Songs Dataset and it's 1% sample.
Example: Anusha et al
Music Genre recognition using neural networks

Can you identify the musical genre using their spectrograms or other sound information?
Datasets: FMA or GTZAN on Keras
Get started with Librosa for feature extraction
FAQ
Can I use the ideas here for my thesis? Yes, totally! I'd love to know how it went.

Do you have any advice before I start my project? Advice for Short Term Machine Learning Projects by Tim R. is a pretty good starting point!

Would you like to share my solution/code to a problem here? Sure - why not?

Go to the GitHub issues tab in this repository and let me know there.

How can I add my ideas here? Just send a pull request and we'll discuss?

Hey, something is wrong here! Yikes, I am sorry. Please tell me by raising a GitHub issue.

I'll fix it as soon as possible.

Acknowledgements
Problems are motivated by the ones shared at:

CMU Machine Learning
Stanford CS229 Machine Learning Projects
Credit
Built with lots of keyboard smashing and copy-pasta love by NirantK. Find me on Twitter!

Receive New & Exclusive Ideas right in your Inbox
These ideas have been seen by hit count people in last few months!

If you are interested in seeing exclusive machine learning and deep learning project ideas, share your e-mail address here!

License
This repository is licensed under the MIT License. Please see the LICENSE file for more details.

	Statistics Project Ideas for College

Comparison between male as well as female students in college
Time spent by college students on social media
Course cost differentiation in colleges
The ratio of college students getting married after graduation
Web browsing habits of college students
Should cellphones be allowed in college?
Significance of the front seats in the class on success rates
Effects of sitting in the back in a class
A popular type of music amongst students
 Relation between birth order as well as success in academics
Caffeine consumption among students as well as its effect on the performance
Popular movie genre among students in college
Choosing aspects of a subject in college
If given the opportunity, are college students more likely to develop drug addictions?
Common subjects were chosen by students in college
Time spent by the customers in the United States in online shopping
Bivariate distributions and their components
Importance of statistics for civil engineering and medical students
Statistical investigation on the link between students’ ethical behaviour and misconducts in examination
Significance of online education for physically impaired students
 Statistics Project Ideas about Business
Influence of social media on business sales
Accessibility of businesses to bank benefits
Is consumption of alcohol higher among employees with a lower pay scale?
Sexual harassment amongst female employees in a workplace
Effect of social media on the performance of an employee
Impact of cost estimation in business management
Consideration of occupational schedules provided by secretaries
Factors contributing to low productivity in a workplace
Relationship between the leaders of a company as well as its employees
Trends of death management in business entities
Importance of internal communication in a workplace
Assessment analysis significance
Can business tools improve the performance of employees?
Effect of modern communication in the management of a company
The utilization of modern tools in any organization
Impact of social media on a company’s sales and its employees’ performance
Statistical investigation of the link between employees’ health and organizations’ health and safety practices
Access to the advantages provided by banks for companies and factors that contribute to low labor productivity
Impact of diversity and inclusion on companies’ overall performance
Relationship between companies’ process safety mechanisms and workplace health and safety of employees
 Socio-Economic Statistics Project Ideas
Income versus explanation analysis in a society
Significance of agricultural loans for farmers
Food habits in low-income families
Comparison between criminal offenses in town as well as villages
Effect of poverty on crime rates
Analysis of the source of revenue as well as the pattern of Expenditure by the local government of the local government
Malpractices of low-income groups
Analysis of road accidents in the suburb as well as town area
Peak traffic times in your city
Effect of smoking on medical costs
Relationship between exercises as well as a reduction in overall medical expenses
The reason behind drastic development in any city
Impact of per capita income on healthcare cost
Why is it important to train the youth of low-income families?
Influence of death as well as birth on the economy of a country
Comparison and relation between petroleum prices with food prices
Can the growth of an organization in society make a difference in the economy of that community?
Effectiveness of computerized budget analysis system
Factors affecting the financial distress in the banking sector
Performance analysis of the banking sector
Analysis of the global economic growth
Impact of COVID-19 on community health
Tendency of committing crime among low-income groups in the United States
Effect of Ukraine and Russia war on global fuel price
Development of Smart City
Read more topic: Excellent Economics Research Topics for you to Consider

 Other Statistical Analysis Topics
Is there a relation between a basketball player as well as his height?
Is the involvement of students in sports the reason behind lower grades?
Are taller people considered to be more accurate?
Cause of aggression in male
Do sports affect the behavior of an individual?
Analysis of brand endorsements by celebrities
Are mobile games beneficial for students?
Is mobile surfing helpful?
Types of shoes worn by basketball players
Does the payroll affect the performance of an employee?
Comparison between hockey as well as basketball?
The popularity of baseball as well as football
Do people enjoy movies more while eating?
Revolution of cinema
Why is there a demand for movie stars?
Significance of health checkups
Analysis of people doing regular health check-ups versus those who do not
Does the cast of a movie influence the interest of people?
Analysis of complexion of humans with their race
What are the aspects of a successful movie?
Impacts of marketing and advertisement campaigns on potential customers 
Impacts of social media activities on the high school student
Popular music among the gen Y 
Impacts of reward programs on employees performance 
Impacts of CRM on the loyalty of the consumers 
Comparative study on the pricing policies of top 10 UK retailers 
Comparative study on people’s buying behavior on normal day and end of season sale 
Spending behavior of people in Christmas Eve and other days in the year
Comparison of hit movies of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone
Statistical analysis of population growth rate in the US and per capita income of the US
Comparative analysis between hygiene factors and motivational factors on employees’ performance
Statistical analysis of global hunger
Assessment of the impact of bushfires on Australia’s biodiversity during 2012 to 2022
Comparison between the world famous detective novels of Arthur Conan Doyle and Agatha Christie
Incidents of online fraud and its impact on data security and privacy

Of course it naturally brings up the question of the actual measurable impact of songs' lyrics on the stock market and like consumer preferences long run. And information we can infer about sponsorships like dunno if Canadian Goose did or did not compensate Lil Uzi Vert, record label, and Maaly Raw, etc.