I estimate that I spent ~300 hours on the mind sport of poker. This actual accomplishment happened after a pretty large gap and I just hopped in the mix on this series for the t shirts, coasters, and hats after not playing for awhile. Fundamentally it can really be a simple discrete time steps game of maths and numbers and betting surrounding an ongoing pseudorandom number generator. Perhaps less, there was some live poker prior including 1/2 at the Texas Card House in Austin, Texas. Where half decent preflop play is often profitable, people being a little loosey goosey preflop. Bingo bango bongo. In any case it never rose to the level of executing simulations or precomputing a lot of threshold values, even doing a ton of post facto analysis of preflop play on my own hands dataset. I know that Global Poker does not reveal the usernames of other players at all times and thus one can't effectively take good notes on other players or run analysis like in some other settings. I never used a random number generator to help guide decision making as a proper player might. Really this event was about having OK hyperparameters tuned, and being able to play a ton of tournaments like 5 hours per day for days on end. This is non trivial and the performance captured is certainly significant. Quantitatively speaking, it is about a trillion [only kinda kidding] times more impressive than being a member of the MIT Poker Club. In fact they do not play poker at the MIT Poker Club [no offense to the fantastic sponsors who really do add a lot of value to the social scene and intellectual mathematical lives of the students there at that fine institution of that fine state] I know this because the hands/level structure in their tournaments is far too low for this activity to even rise to the level of constituing the poker card game. I do not tilt and understand a few things about tournament structures. So, sometimes it is wise to always take 20s for each and every decision and thus have a 0 information leak on timer usage a la Doug Polk YouTube films play. And other times due to stack size dynamics and levels on times it is not in fact. One thing about Global Poker play money tournaments is that in the first 30 minutes a lot of donkeys and one can get a huge stack by calling a little wider like if it's hand 1 call a jam with JJ because they really might have ATs or worse even. In terms of reasoning about pot odds, that is real. In terms of how often one thinks "I ought to be bluffing here 40% of the time" that is less often. In terms of not checking the river when you have the nuts, i.e. making strictly dominating plays of course we logick through that day 1 of before we even begin to engage in the mind sport. This also includes stuff like being non autistic e.g. there is a huge difference between a set and trips despite the fact that both make the rank 3 of a kind hand and so maybe one has precomputed to be betting a set on the flop but instant checking trips in the right live settings. Trying to hustle young boys at Caltech to play a little heads up having read 3 tracts on that topic and played some another matter. Be sure not to get conned, collusion is real, sit after the shark in the action when possible at the table, etc. etc. play a bunch of 6-max live if you can bro. Certainly it involves things like "well I can rule out him having TT here because of the preflop action" or "well I happen to have AK on the button but I am preflop 3 betting here pretty wide". Now the final matter is the final table play which is another tricky tricky matter and the payout structure in a real tournament would not be based upon clearing this threshold in fact this part matters a ton to the first order so studying final table play low n count play is critical to maximise here bust 2nd not 7th.