So this year they are attempting to ban LLMs in the human track despite ongoing progress in that domain with Chat GPT 5 Professional and potentially Google Gemini 3.0. Uh interesting enough. If people want to use an LLM they can practise prompt engineering as well as maybe even special coding requests to make code appear like it was not generated by an LLM maybe or just edit a tonne locally. Seems tricky to adjudicate and arbitrate who is cheating. Anyways one could potentially if Chat GPT 5 spits out some wicked long code could run it and also write down and submit some other code which would in fact produce the target output if one had 512 cores and then just assert to the Meta team when asked that one did indeed have 512 cores on hand to clear 500 test cases with 1 core per case in round and shit like just write down a short code which would work with 2TB of RAM and tell them you got 2TB of RAM on hand when in actuality you just ran some janky C from Chat GPT on your MacBook.

Following the practise round I ought to add... I think I once read an interview where it was stated that Mark Zuckerberg was impressed when one of his opponents cheated or rather deceived in some strategy game for the win against him... because it is all about the win. So I should add that if me and Sinha look similar on practise round task E final task it is probably not because we talked but rather because we both used the same LLM without even modifying output much so... there you have it in terms of MOSS or cheating detection we look similar as fuck.

Anyways, the point is that was a lesson and shit. And still we learn lessons in prompt engineering and mental acuity from Round 1 final task where I should have queried something like... write up a brute force and show me the code and then also just try and spot the pattern by brute forcing all strings under length 20 or something.

So it is even more clear one can prompt something like this in thread with GPT: please code up a brute force checker and ensure it is logically valid. Then try and debug your faster algorithm by brute forcing all input of size up to 15 and also consider testing some random cases of size between 15 and 50.

Or something like this might be just OK prompt engineering.

--

Oh yeah also wanted to add a digression here like in Project Euler it is quite easy to copy and paste the .html link at the upper right corner leads to text which is legible to an LLM Large Language Model but on Meta Hacker Cup transcribing tasks itself can be tricky. It might be wise to have 1 or 2 threads going just to transcribe and another to try and transcribe then solve in 1 go but if a transcription takes GPT like 20 seconds and looks good one can confirm it is good before sending that over with modifications as a query. Much much much better than actually manually manipulating the text which would emerge if one copied and pasted from the tab itself. Do it from a screenshot.

--

Oh one more thought here one more comment yeah yeah big ups the thing is a LLM is not deterministic but it is not so random. As we saw on Round 0 like Qualifications it would seem sharper to really mix up the code you know really find minor variants and reorderings at the very least because under a MOSS you can get indicted and it might be better to ask the LLM to just explain the solution in editorial tutorial style without code and code it up oneself. All in the usual CP Competitive Programming template.