[Drafting Semi-Recreationally For Aspiring Community College Professors And Side Hustlers]

I enjoy drafting lecture notes on important topics like introductory statistics and mathematics. I am inspired by community colleges, mathematics circles, and home schooler organisations. [Blah blah blah assert passion for teaching.]

[Do not mention other semi-hobbies like poetry ghost writing, mixing, mastering, and providing feedback to vocal performers.]

If I was studying to become a general practitioner in medical school and tasked with a research project in psychology I might run one on undergraduate males Hollywood waxing or epilating. Perhaps high school athletes or general males. Seems worth researching more. Some large mixture of American undergraduate males would be OK maybe uh just butts or full body, arms, legs, back, chest, maybe uh and provide the waxing with a very simple wax maybe uh unclear specifics uh versus epilation. I have read just a couple articles upon this topic. Monitour cognitive performance metrics as well as subjective wellbeing in a short written survey. Could measure cognitive performance metrics remotely or at a nice laboratory setting. Advertisement could be recorded in the study proposal and read something more like in Black Helvetica Bold on White: Seeking undergraduate males who have never waxed their buttocks' for study: $200 pay. Selection effects and psyops. Perhaps the exit survey can ask questions like: Did you get an ingrown hair? Pain? Were you pleasantly surprised by your subjective perception of the experience? Even a published result like: 50% of undergraduate males interested in trying out buttocks waxing were pleasantly surprised... would do some good for the state of the world over at Gates Dell Computer Science Complex allegedly. Perhaps it would be wiser to opt for $0 instead of $200 and also have participants sign strongly written informed consent forms. Note in writing that their posterior risk of contracting a STD Sexually Transmitted Disease may be increased by waxing activities. I would imagine low effects on cognition but potentially nontrivial effects on subject perceived mood wellbeing.

Maybe instead run some numbers and have kids come in and rate orange juice where the only difference is if the writing on the visible bottle states organic or not... monitour optics and 'cebos. Then also run the test where there is just organic and not orange juice without any visible label and monitour. I do not know which vendor offers an organic and not option like Simply. One might think organic is slightly higher in quality however perhaps people just naively believe organic is much better. I would not be shocked if in the former experiment people just rate the organic labeled non organic orange juice a solid 1 point higher on a 5 scale and in the latter report the organic nonlabeled as 0.1 point higher or something like that but I would not be too sure until running this pair of experiments. I am not sure what impact non organic has on the world, but I might move in that direction depending on my feelings about personal finance allocations. Hmm maybe asserting that Bambooz is Japanese bamboo will boost its "value".

Joke here would be a Machine Learning algorithm which takes a brain scan of a graduate student and predicts their success as a researcher... sad science fiction reality.