[Massachusetts Institute Of Technology, Carnegie Mellon University, University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Princeton University, Harvard, Harvard Statistics, University Of Pennsylvania, University Of Texas At Austin] [Credence ~0.7 Rejected From All Due In Part To Awful Statement Of Purpose And Lack Of Citations And Also Potentialy Weak Letters [If Rejected On December 10th From Spring 2025 Matriculation Can Try To Find New Letter Writers And Exclude Old Ones]] [Hoping To Get Trader Sooner Rather Than Later ~2024 Else Hope For Doctor Of Philosophy Of Statistics 2029 And Professor]

	Resume And Cover Letter Notes

Could customise. I saw people automating thousands of applications with scripts that optimise the resume and cover letter from the job listing. The University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign does not offer a review service to Master students. HandShake and LinkedIn are mediocre. I will automate. And solicit feedback. Write Quantitative Research Intern or PhD Statistics only upon completion. Use "Incoming", "Intern", and "Self-Employed" as appropriate so as to not confuse or troll one's readership. I suggest not mentioning TAing|grading because it is not that impressive. And also avoid mentioning hobbies like HMMT Harvard-MIT Mathematics Tournament organising because some might think it is an actively harmful waste of time compared with actually doing research. A cute Chinese graduate student told me USAPhO and potentially running look good. Might want to write a blurb soon if I do well on Bridgewater 2025. Can also mention I have been working through Analysis and Partial Differential Equations qualifying examinations for practise. A different resume writer told me to cut the 5000m Run time. It is wack when Stanford|CalTech students write down their GPA Grade Point Average out of 4.0 or 4.00 when the true underlying numeric here is 4.30 and makes me cringe automatically reject due to questions about integrity and disingenuity.

Draft blurb could go something like this:

Preparing for qualifying examinations on analysis and partial differential equations. In-the-money on Bridgewater's forecasting competition: used data cleaning, statistics, pandas, knowledge, and intuition. Computed parameters for base strategy of automatically tracking the mixture of a relatively noninformative prior with the market median and the movement of the market median. Generated distributions during hidden periods as an exercise in data curation.

	Version ~2025-06 For Fall 2026 Matriculation

My resume and transcript introduce my background in mathematical puzzles and computer science. I have recently been studying analysis and partial differential equations qualifying examinations from Stanford. A previous PhD admissions interviewer said I ought to ensure familiarity with graduate level analysis to pass upon entering their programme.

Towards the end of my Master Of Computer Science degree at the University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign I started reading the ArXiV and Statistics Stack Exchange more seriously. I searched around on topics like separating hyperplane selection in cases of asymmetric training data, results on different kernel density estimators, and computing certain posterior distributions faster than standard Markov Chain Monte Carlo techniques. This has been exciting. People discuss modified and quasi Markov Chain Monte Carlo for many different settings, which seems to be a very popular and recurring topic on the ArXiV and in theses.

Then I wrote and posted my research paper Y on the ArXiV Statistics Theory section along with codes.

Your school's faculty, research, and resources would contribute to my future goals. More education in mathematical finance will be useful. As will having a strong adviser guide me in my readings and research. The community also ought to provide stimulating conversation. I would love to pursue a career in academia and research. I will only attend if I receive fully funded tuition, health insurance, and an assistantship stipend.

	Version ~2025-03

My resume and transcript introduce my background in mathematical puzzles and computer science. I have recently been studying analysis and partial differential equations qualifying examinations from various universities like Stanford. A previous PhD admissions interviewer said I ought to ensure familiarity with graduate level analysis to pass upon entering their programme.

Towards the end of my Master Of Computer Science degree at the University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign I started reading the ArXiV and Statistics Stack Exchange more seriously. I searched around on topics like separating hyperplane selection in cases of asymmetric training data, generalising the empirical distribution function in higher dimensional settings, and computing certain posterior distributions faster than standard Markov Chain Monte Carlo techniques. This has been exciting. People discuss modified Markov Chain Monte Carlo for many different settings, which seems to be a very popular and recurring topic on the ArXiV and in theses.

I was working on various readings related to separating hyperplane selection under various criteria, desiderata, and levels of uncertainty. I did not publish results, so I posted that work under "Separating Hyperplanes - Master Thesis Draft.tex" in my Paper Drafts folder on December 1st, 2024. I contemplated multiple cited papers and textbooks' chapters and returned with new ideas and comments for potential future directions. I also have been studying mid-latency trading. And I won Top 2% in the Bridgewater Metaculus forecasting competition.

Your school's faculty, research, and resources would contribute to my future goals. More education in mathematical finance will be useful. As will having a strong adviser guide me in my readings and research. The community also ought to provide stimulating conversation. I would love to pursue a career in academia and research. I will only attend if I receive fully funded tuition, health insurance, and an assistantship stipend.

	Alternate Draft Version

[Mathematical Statistics. With sharp thoughts.

My research.

Mathematical finance.

Relevant conclusion outro with customised discussion of programmes and people.

... Can Talk With Prospective Advisers At The University Of Texas At Austin]

I enjoy thinking about Mathematical Statistics. Though I have yet to publish impressive results, I am working towards it. I would love to come to your PhD programme and study further.

Towards the end of my Master Of Computer Science at the University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign I started reading the ArXiV and Statistics Stack Exchange more seriously. I searched around on fun topics like separating hyperplane separation selection in cases of asymmetric training data, extant writing on useful notions like the empirical distribution function in higher dimensional settings, and faster approximation algorithms for posterior than Markov chain Monte Carlo. This has been exciting.

After speaking with a researcher in Mathematical Finance, I realised I ought to learn more about partial differential equations. I planned on solving tasks from textbooks and reading through notes from courses.

	Version For Future Matriculation

I have been preparing myself for graduate school with my Master Of Computer Science degree at the University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, short stint as a Software Engineer at Amazon, puzzles, online competitive programming, and academic research readings. I semiregularly place top 10 in Project Leonhard Euler tasks and top 500 in AtCoder 2-3 hour rounds. Competitors are tasked with producing robust and algorithmically strong C++ codes to complete tricky tasks. This has been tonnes of fun. I take online notes on these topics and mathematics in my public GitHub repository "Lazar".

Recently, I have been lightly skimming through the archives of Statistics theses from the Massachusetts Institute Of Technology, Harvard, Pennsylvania, Yale, Stanford, etc. These have been interesting. I would most likely enjoy studying financial data sets, as this is most pertinent to trading.

In terms of my solo research, I have primarily been working on Mathematical Statistics. I was not on track to publish results during my Master degree, so I posted that work under "Separating Hyperplanes - Master Thesis Draft.tex" in my Paper Drafts folder on December 1st, 2024. I contemplated multiple cited papers and textbooks' chapters and returned every day with new ideas and comments for potential future directions. This was fun. I also have been working on mid-latency trading studies. And I won Top 9% in the Bridgewater Metaculus Trading Competition.

Your school's faculty, research, and resources would contribute to my future goals. More education in quantitative finance will be useful. As will having a strong adviser guide me in my readings and research. The community also ought to provide stimulating conversation.

	Version For Fall 2025 Matriculation

I have been preparing myself for graduate school with my Master Of Computer Science degree at the University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, short stint as a Software Engineer at Amazon, puzzles, online competitive programming, and academic research readings. I semiregularly place top 10 in Project Leonhard Euler tasks and top 500 in AtCoder 2-3 hour rounds. Competitors are tasked with producing robust and algorithmically strong C++ codes to complete tricky tasks. This has been tonnes of fun. I take online notes on these topics and mathematics in my public GitHub repository "Lazar".

I also study Kaggle machine learning notebooks and approximation algorithms competitions online, such as the AtCoder heuristic series. Most of my research readings have been in algorithms and discrete mathematics, a mixture of historical archives and modern combinatorics. I also have thought about many state of the art papers in machine learning. I am hoping to soon publish interesting results. I would like to study statistics for my thesis, as this is valuable for traders in the labour market.

Recently, I have been lightly skimming through the archives of Statistics theses from the Massachusetts Institute Of Technology, Harvard, Pennsylvania, Yale, Stanford, etc. These have been interesting. I would most likely enjoy studying financial data sets, as this is most pertinent to trading.

In terms of my solo research, I have primarily been working on various problems relating to Separating Hyperplane selection under various criteria, desiderata, and levels of uncertainty. I was not on track to publish results, so I posted that work under "Separating Hyperplanes - Master Thesis Draft.tex" in my Paper Drafts folder on December 1st, 2024. I contemplated multiple cited papers and textbooks' chapters and returned every day with new ideas and comments for potential future directions. This was fun. I also have been working on mid-latency trading studies. And I won Top 9% in the Bridgewater Metaculus Trading Competition.

Your school's faculty, research, and resources would contribute to my future goals. More education in quantitative finance will be useful. As will having a strong adviser guide me in my readings and research. The community also ought to provide stimulating conversation.

	Post Script - Email Sent To Tens Of Massachusetts Institute Of Technology And Harvard Professors:

	Summer 2024 Internship?

Would you like my unpaid help this summer?

	Unpaid Internship At University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Computer Science?

Hi. I am in the Master Of Computer Science program and was reviewing Dr. Erickson's Quora posts... realizing that research experience is important if I want to try and apply for a Doctor Of Philosophy following the Master Of Computer Science. Do you know if anyone would like to support me as an unpaid labourer with their laboratory? I applied through the Computer Science Job Portal as well as the Carle Illinois College Of Medicine Projects Available For Student Participation. I am somewhat interested in Hepatology.

	Post Post Script

	Draft To Medical School During Doctor Of Philosophy Of Statistics

Hi, I am currently a Doctor Of Philosophy Of Statistics student with a 526 on the MCAT Medical College Admission Test. I was wondering if I could cross-enroll with the medical school in order to sit the USMLE United States Medical Licensing Examination and potentially pursue a career in family medicine.

[After MCAT Medical College Admission Test, Directly Apply To Medical Schools Which Do Not Require Biology Courses In Written Prerequisites - Indicate An Interest In Family Medicine, Radiology, And Biological Statistics]
[When Matching For Radiology|Family Medicine|Laboratories Can Look At Hospitals With Fragrance-Free Policy Which Itself Comes In To The Implementation Of Said Policies]

	Comment On Michael Druggan's Writing

Not good. I highly doubt he got a perfect score on the GRE General.

"
Are you or your child looking for help preparing for math competitions such as Mathcounts, AMC 8/10/12, AIME, USAMO, or Putnam? Or maybe You're just looking to learn Mathematical problem solving in general.

I am a recent graduate of Carnegie Mellon University with a BS in mathematics with honors and have recently spent some time in the quantitive trading world at Jane street and SIG so if your looking for help with those interviews I can also be of assistance there. I have many years of experience with competition math and I have done quite well in many competitions. I would love the opportunity to share what I have learned along the way with other students who are interested in competition math.

Some of my acheievements in math competitions include:

USAMO (USA math olympiad) winner 2010
USAMO honorable mention 2011
AIME perfect scorer 2011 (one of only 4 in the USA)
Putnam 6th place in the USA 2011
Member of the 2nd place CMU putnam team in 2011 and 2013
Attended the Math olympiad Summer program
Was a member of the 1st place USA team at the international competition the Romanian Masters in Math in 2011
perfect score on the ACT
800 in SAT math
perfect score on the GRE

My schedule is pretty flexible just text or email me and we can discuss timing.

Location is also flexible. Due to covid most of my business has moved online. I like to use zoom with the whiteboard app awwapp. This means that I am able to offer my services to anyone in any part of the countryh.

My rate is $70/hr and $100/90min for individual 1-on-1 tutoring. I am also willing to tutor small groups of students. If you have a small group please contact me and we can discuss rates.

contact me if you're interested.
"

"so if your looking for help with those interviews" is the wrong you're. Egregious error.