[Massachusetts Institute Of Technology, Carnegie Mellon University, University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Princeton University, Harvard, Harvard Statistics, University Of Pennsylvania, University Of Texas At Austin] [Credence ~0.7 Rejected From All Due In Part To Awful Statement Of Purpose And Lack Of Citations] [Hoping To Get Trader Sooner Rather Than Later ~2024 Else Hope For Doctor Of Philosophy Of Statistics 2029]

	Version For Future Matriculation

Recently, I have been reading through the archives of Statistics theses from the Massachusetts Institute Of Technology, Harvard, Pennsylvania, Yale, Stanford, etc. These have been interesting. I would most likely enjoy studying financial data sets, as this is most pertinent to trading.

In terms of my solo research, I have primarily been working on BLAHBLAHBLAH. If I am not on track to publish results, I will post that work under "BLAHBLAHBLAH" and attach it to this application. I contemplated multiple cited papers and textbooks' chapters and returned every day with new ideas and comments for potential future directions. This was fun. I also have been working on mid-latency trading studies. And I won Top 9% in the Bridgewater Metaculus Trading Competition.

Your school's faculty, research, and resources would contribute to my future goals. More education in quantitative finance will be useful. As will having a strong adviser guide me in my readings and research. The community also ought to provide stimulating conversation.

	Version For Fall 2025 Matriculation

I have been preparing myself for graduate school with my Master Of Computer Science degree at the University Of Illinois At Urbana-Champaign, short stint as a Software Engineer at Amazon, puzzles, online competitive programming, and academic research readings. I regularly place top 10 in Project Leonhard Euler tasks and top 500 in AtCoder and CodeForces 2-3 hour rounds. Competitors are tasked with producing robust and algorithmically strong C++ codes to complete tricky tasks. This has been tonnes of fun. I take online notes on these topics and mathematics in my public GitHub repository "Lazar".

I also study Kaggle machine learning notebooks and approximation algorithms competitions online, such as the AtCoder heuristic series. Most of my research readings have been in algorithms and discrete mathematics, a mixture of historical archives and modern combinatorics. I also have thought about many state of the art papers in machine learning. I am hoping to soon publish interesting results. I would like to study statistics for my thesis, as this is valuable for traders in the labour market.

Recently, I have been reading through the archives of Statistics theses from the Massachusetts Institute Of Technology, Harvard, Pennsylvania, Yale, Stanford, etc. These have been interesting. I would most likely enjoy studying financial data sets, as this is most pertinent to trading.

In terms of my solo research, I have primarily been working on BLAHBLAHBLAH. If I am not on track to publish results, I will post that work under "BLAHBLAHBLAH" and attach it to this application. I contemplated multiple cited papers and textbooks' chapters and returned every day with new ideas and comments for potential future directions. This was fun. I also have been working on mid-latency trading studies. And I won Top 9% in the Bridgewater Metaculus Trading Competition.

Your school's faculty, research, and resources would contribute to my future goals. More education in quantitative finance will be useful. As will having a strong adviser guide me in my readings and research. The community also ought to provide stimulating conversation.

	Post Script - Email Sent To Tens Of Massachusetts Institute Of Technology And Harvard Professors:

	Summer 2024 Internship?

Would you like my unpaid help this summer?

	Unpaid Internship At University Of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Computer Science?

Hi. I am in the Master Of Computer Science program and was reviewing Dr. Erickson's Quora posts... realizing that research experience is important if I want to try and apply for a Doctor Of Philosophy following the Master Of Computer Science. Do you know if anyone would like to support me as an unpaid labourer with their laboratory? I applied through the Computer Science Job Portal as well as the Carle Illinois College Of Medicine Projects Available For Student Participation. I am somewhat interested in Hepatology.

	Post Post Script

	Draft To Medical School During Doctor Of Philosophy Of Statistics

Hi, I am currently a Doctor Of Philosophy Of Statistics student with a 526 MCAT Medical College Admission Test score. I was wondering if we could find a way to consider me cross enrolled with the medical school programme in order to sit the USMLE United States Medical Licensing Examination.