[Email potential Doctor Of Philosophy In Mathematics ~2035 advisors like Dr. Noga Alon at Princeton. Massachusetts Institute Of Technology, Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, Carnegie Mellon University, etc. Master Of Science In Computer Science degrees seem overpriced at ~$100000 not covered by a firm when one can research solo or in a Doctor Of Philosophy context. Credence ~0.7 ACcepted upon 2023-09-29 ~15:40|03:40PM.]

I have been interested in mathematics for a very long time, since early middle school. During my Bachelor Of Science In Mathematics at the University Of Texas At Austin, I took my quantitative studies seriously and rigorously. I secured a job as a software engineer at .

I have been preparing myself for graduate school with puzzles, online competitive programming, and academic research readings. I regularly place top 10 in Project Leonhard Euler tasks and top 500 in AtCoder and CodeForces 2-3 hour rounds. Competitors are tasked with producing robust and algorithmically strong C++ codes to complete tricky tasks. This has been tonnes of fun. I take online notes on these topics and mathematics in my public GitHub repository "Lazar".

I also study Kaggle machine learning notebooks and approximation algorithms competitions online, such as the AtCoder heuristic series. Most of my research readings have been in algorithms and discrete mathematics, a mixture of historical archives and modern combinatorics. I also have thought about many state of the art papers in machine learning.

I want to pursue an online Master In Computer Science degree to update my skill set and maintain a job in the competitive software engineer labour market. My primary goal is to sustain a long and lucrative career in computing. This is notoriously tough, but I am up for the challenge of hard courses and tasks in order to stay sharp and learning.

My targets and incentives are aligned with those of prospective employers. Many firms love to see a Master degree. As I have a job, a part-time program suits my schedule well. To the extent that I can select my courses, I intend to focus on parallel computing, machine learning, and software engineering.