UGS303 Dancing America
Essay 2
Lazar Ilic
EID li948

In the Heights mainly fulfills Altman's definition of the American folk musical through its depiction of Washington Heights and the experiences and struggles of the characters and this community. It is a film like many films which is mostly generic, but contains notable asides in production value and dance scene videography. It is the story of a relatively prosocial heterosexual couple in a poorer Hispanic neighbourhood of the melting pot of New York City who climactically kiss, and have a kid at the end, thereby achieving the sort of economic and natalistic American dream story which has been spun for centuries.

Dyer writes "heterosexuality is at the heart of this. The heterosexual couple are usually the main characters and either the problems are what prevent them getting together... class". Right so this film is fundamentally driven by an arc of a couple meeting, discussing some concrete event dance driven get together gathering. And eventually making kids. Dyer goes on to kind of create a structure of like 3 labels with which to bucket or classify depictions of heterosexual relationships. He is paid to do this. I would suppose that most scholars would choose to classify the depicted relation as the so called "Jane Austen" model, the idea of complementarity within equality. The 2 depicted protagonist leads share a number of traits, kind of same class, same hood, need to work hard to achieve the economic prosperity goal target which underlies all of this.

The actual language used in the film is mostly simple, some throwaway lines about work and "work ethic" kind of a shtick. But, as I note in Extended Notes From Viewing below, there is a half interesting shot sequence where we see, from the viewpoint of the male, who is a clerk at a candy corner store. In this sequence, many clients appear, diverse in ethnicity, mood, clothing, and purchases made.

Abouassali writes "This 3-2 clave rhythm, typically associated with Latin American music, was also used in West Side Story's "America" to indicate a loyalty to the story's roots. Similarly, In the Heights uses the rhythm as intended to underline the idea of what it means to be Latin American in the United States, and that conforming is not necessary". That is interesting enough as is "The American Dream is one that often encompasses and glorifies the "rise from the bottom". However, this rise from the bottom suggests a bottom-state. Immigration goes hand-in-hand with the idea of the American Dream, though it is so hard for many to achieve. The American Dream idealizes whiteness rather than speaking of assimilation. It is a dream of conformity where conforming to whiteness is seen as superior".

The actual measured numerics of like 3rd generation immigrants speaking their mother's mother's tongue like a native speaker would aside. I contend that this is a pretty valid characterisation. In this film, the so called bottom is not so bottom it would appear I mean quite a few of the characters are portrayed as having fun, being happy. The sort of separation between work and play is not too blurred, I mean they dance at work which is kind of awkward and odd vis a vis actual labour in reality but... the most play of play is a bit separate.

In terms of direct biological natalism in these sorts of stories sometimes it is half clear that grandmotherly figures would in fact love to have some grandchildren. So when they exist sometimes they actively kind of pressure younger kids into conforming to those sorts of volitions or desires. Here I mean it is more supporting and supportive in direct human contact value. I mean one of the less examined aspects of this film for me perhaps as a loner is just how loud and obnoxious it seems to deal with so many different people. But the depicted characters manage to find that to be like a fun and uplifting part of their life.

On to Negron-Muntaner. "There is no single American cultural product that haunts Puerto Rican identity discourses in the United States more intensely than the 1961 film, West Side Story, directed by Robert Wise and Jerome Robbins... Although neither the first nor last American movie to portray Puerto Ricans as gang members or as sassy and virginal..."

Yes, I am glad that in this course I have had many more than merely 1 or 2 take and framing on the life and impact of the work of Jerome Robbins. He was free to spin this story and sell it. I mean I do not personally know a single Puerto Rican Hispanic person and I suppose that we have 1 in our course who will chime in sometimes about his own family. In any case, I am sure that they are mostly the "good" kind of people, try to be friendly and all. And so like if dudes get in bar fights over dumb stuff like race due to Jerome that is kind of boo hoo no good for them.

But this film In The Heights certainly would be a big whoop de whoop cheer from team Puerto Rico! It depicts these happy people who are upstanding citizens meaning well for eachother and getting along. The dude is friendly to kids, likable, and generally medium to high functioning in the standard meanings of those words.

Altman writes "the folk musical projects the audience into a mythicised version of the past". I am going to count this one as a yes I mean it is a fictional dance film, lot of dancing, as well as the sideways building physics. Insofar as the rest is mythicised it is not too mythical or mythological. Perhaps some viewers long for more dancing in their life and pop music isms.

It is not really about memory per se, but the colours contribute towards actually the "art and dream worlds of the other subgenres". I thought that the club scene with like Red lights was not too unrealistic. But the one in the park was quite odd I mean I know people that do yoga in public in parks which is not too far off.

Of course over time the notions of Altman themself may become out dated. In this film there is not really a stress on the family element and unit. More on the community at large. This echoes the real life social networks of people online and in the interconnected network of the present.

However they still mourn in a candle lit type of old timey scene, keeping that tradition alive for now.

As for the functioning of America as a constellation of small towns, one supposes the metaphor of New York City as a set of neighbourhoods and so other works with gangs from different hoods function as a back drop for a viewer coming into this one being half educated on such previous works. Here however, it is perhaps a smattering of other dudes and chicks just kind of fill in that there is a non homogeneous presence of people there. But the protagonists do seem to find comfort in their mutual commonalities. And I and many other academics interested in realistic description of real world relationships tend to think that opposites do not really attract actually the more shared beliefs and values the better for compatibility in long term natalistic relationships.

Certainly "in the folk musical such a community is rarely absent" and here there is an often present community.

And a kind of "rhythm of life already constitutes a dance" is interesting vis a vis the earlier point on literal rhythm and my waxing on life and child birth. I mean a bunch of sun lit scenes can make the viewer literally just think more highly and positively of like Puerto Rican people so that is the power of film and cinema and ideology I guess yet again being half coerced nay willing to view this film for this course.

I am not going to lie I left this to the last day and frankly found that Altman was kind of just ranting about some analyses that I dunno, rather just watch and experience some film rather than rant quite so much. I expect to see more American Dream films and am currently engaged with multiple firms pitching a screenplay idea kind of on the topic. I actually really enjoy this stuff and need to get a job actually.

Extended Notes From Viewing:

Kids dance and a radio program discusses an upcoming Fiesta with presumed dancing. There are some translations and dudes speaking in Spanish, and a boast about the Dominican Republic being the "single greatest place". Now the dude dances, and moves with agility. She is not really his abuela which means she fills in a kind of role as a friendly elderly grandmotherly woman to him in some kind of function.

Yeah actually it is really funny to see a quick sequence of like 10 different customers at a corner store to really communicate to the viewer what it lowkey like working there. And chit chatting a little friendly banter talk with the regulars regs. From poverty to stock options In The Heights. And there is like a massive colourful choregraphed dance sequence, lot of frame jumping, very excited movements, clearly intense colour filtering and post facto editing work. The people say "God" quite often.

Obviously I am prone to contending that the actual simple economics and realisation of dreams, wants, and desires is basically the American dream for many and so these Hispanic and Black people want to make money and some of them want to have kids too like a lot of normal people.

No shame in having a different path.

Again there is like a radio, clock, tons of colours and filtering and some women in like a hair salon or so called "beauty parlour" type setting doing like manicures with funny stuff on their hands nails.

Well it is interesting that she cares about a dude and whether or not he is whistling at her because he has nothing to say... the entire point of course lowkey was to emphasise that whistling and primarily dancing actually do also function communicatively. I think this was an earlier component actually when some chicks were like twerking or intentionally jiggling their breasts organs actually. I can never be quite sure what sorts of movements are or are not "sexy" or "so seductive" but to be sure it is mildly humorous she goes to his literal candy shop and one cannot help but think the director ought to not have included a corny breath humidity smiley face but a lollipop mechanism here as a jokey joke for the adults viewers. His tongue was over there hanging out perhaps lolling. Dude needs a kid to be he his side man, pawn, something about clubs, dancing, fiestas, and fireworks.

The actual weird shot about flying which cuts through to her eye I mean the actual pacing is kind of slow and annoying.

Nah I mean in terms of this actual film I am tasked with arguing about some clear, precise, technical examples which I think fit with Rick Altman's definition of the American folk musical. And to be sure these people seem American to me. They live in America. It is New York City which is a supposed and real uh cultural melting pot in the sense that they know people with different cultural backgrounds and choices and live mostly amicably there. They preserve certain desired aspects and freely choose to reject others and do what they want. The ideology is seriously centered on money and whether or not they actually transfer assets back towards family or friends in a relatively poorer nation state is a little bit unclear.

The wigs move a little.

The scene in the park is kind of odd to me again they do not actually just spontaneously dance like this in parks at least I do not think I mean in real life I recall The Harlem Shake meme as well as the unfunny Black Beatles meme and I do believe people actually schedule and get together to dance in groups for fun like a lot of people do recreational swing dancing. Or as a way to use the Meetup website sytem platform to meet dates and potential mates.

Well at the actual Fiesta In The Heights there are red lights which may be causing more feelings of romance. A lot of couples dance. They chill and continue to speak in Spanglish. I really do not know if this film was intended for the box office and streaming viewership to try and snag actual Spanglish speakers with weaker English but it is interesting as a White viewer without domain specific knowledge of that language [even the subtitles remain intentionally un translated].

Yeah there is like some over heating incident and the old woman dies and it is supposed to be a real tragedy of some filler scene about candles and death.

Frankly the scene where the protest leader promotes Leftist atheist rhetoric versus the earlier "God" centric view of the older folk was a nice touch. She says they were not saints, they were living human activists who made things happen.

There is another hood scene some arms swinging, some legs moving fast, a whole lot of Spanish and flags of Hispanic countries and people in this hood waving their flags around. Flag designs are half interesting. Lot of colourful clothes and dudes wearing like thin polos on top of cotton under shirts.

The scene where they somehow film, visual effect, and dance on the side of a building is very post Inception and the mechanics are a little interesting. I dunno film scenes like this where a dude is moved to think about the dead woman "abuela" would have struck me as a child as kind of corny or psychotic almost but nowadays when I wear earplugs and think about the wise words of old people long dead or imagine what they might have said to me it is humorous. I can never know what "creative" and "artistic" really mean for sure like maybe he is hitting on her or she actually created something he classified in his own noodle noggin as "artistic".

Well they do kiss a long kiss next to a window and frankly I am reminded of cats and why it is the case that some people refer to moustaches as whiskery or consisting of whiskers.

There is some water spraying everywhere instead as man made rain and a child and kissing and it is an OK ending. The overall production value was OK. The story and plotline were nothing to really write home about I mean frankly I think I am supposed to offer up some details descriptions of actual dance moves or simply discuss the primary themes and plot points.

Task Statement:

Rick Altman argues that the American folk musical offers an idealized portrait of America, American life, and the American dream. In contrast, journalist Sofi Abouassali, notes that traditionally, the American dream "is a dream of conformity where conforming to whiteness is seen as superior." These ideas lead to such questions as - what does "American" and the "American dream" symbolize in this musical? What do the dreams and struggles of these characters tell us about the American dream, generational ties or conflicts, and the importance of home, community, and family?

In your 4-5 page essay, make an argument about how In the Heights fulfills [and/or differs from] Altman’s definition of the American folk musical through its depiction of Washington Heights and the experiences and struggles of the characters and this community. A successful paper will offer description and analysis of specific scenes, songs, dance sequences, or moments in the musical [or documentary] to support your thesis and claims, and will converse with select concepts from Altman, Negron-Muntaner, or Aboussali.

Sources Cited:

Abouassali, Sofi. "In the Heights: An American Dream." The Strand. 30 September 2021. https://thestrand.ca/author/sofi-aboussali/

Altman, Rick. "The Folk Musical." The American Film Musical. Indiana University Press, 1988, pp. 272-327. 

Dyer, Richard. "I seem to find the happiness I seek': Heterosexuality and Dance in the American Musical." Dance, Gender and Culture, edited by Helen Thomas. Palgrave Macmillan, 1993, pp. 49-65. 

In the Heights. Directed by Jon Chu, Warner Brothers, 2021.

In the Heights: Chasing Broadway Dreams. Directed by Paul Bozymowski, Radical Media and Thirteen Productions for WNET, 2009. 

Negron-Muntaner, Frances. "Feeling Pretty: West Side Story and Puerto Rican Identity Discourses." Social Text, vol 18, no. 2 (Summer 2000), pp. 83-106.