UGS303 Dancing America
Final
Lazar Ilic
EID li948

From Wikipedia:

"
Boston Dynamics is an American engineering and robotics design company founded in 1992 as a spin off from the Massachusetts Institute Of Technology. The agile anthropomorphic robot Atlas is a 5 foot bipedal humanoid robot designed for a variety of search and rescue tasks.
"

Robots and Artificial Intelligence present a risk to humanity. There is some concern amongst the broader public over the near term future due to mass media. The television series Black Mirror as well as a Los Angeles based firm called Corridor Digital have depicted killer robotic dogs. And knockoffs of the Boston Dynamics' Atlas model have been depicted beating up humans. Most people in the know claim that robots will be extremely beneficial to society at large and "good" in the common sense usage of that word.

I contend that their YouTube dance films are a highly effective form of advertising, which leads viewers to thinking that the firm is pulling amazing technical stunts and designing cool, helpful, useful robots. Further, they invite people to apply to work with them on the construction and production of new models. These films use the cultural art form of dance and take it in new and old directions with the robots!

They promote the firm via their own YouTube channel "Boston Dynamics". This channel also features extensive footage with the robots and human teams which design and manufacture them. This propaganda is often fun for the viewers too and adds to the human aspect behind all of this.

The films are interesting from a dance and human-machine duality perspective. In the future, robots may provide comforting, calming, pleasant user experiences in a variety of settings including medical and service. But here, for now, they can make us smile, laugh, and dance at dance!

The 65 seconds long 2160p 4k film Atlas | Partners In Parkour has a terse description about the history of the word "parkour" and the implict ability to interact with novel urban environments. They have yet to clothe the humanoid robots and there is something particularly notable around the 38s-39s mark. A little stumble almost, not a huge fall, but an imperfect lapse nevertheless. This was probably not programmed or intentional. It does not seem that they use added noise or "wabi-sabi" elements to produce a more human like movement. Perhaps in some settings this would lead to less reported negative feelings for the viewer. In any case, it is a fluctuation and deviation which goes to show that the automatic balancing subroutines in these robots are performant, which is critical for their functioning. Balcing is important for our survival and functioning too.

The well sensored and modulated robots automatically balance when they mis measure the environment or there is an unpredictable underlying shifting environment, though the depicted one appears to be relatively static. It is still a little unclear how these so-called Atlas robots will be affecting and holding up the economics of the real world. Perhaps these dudes will serve ramen in Tokyo and freshly roasted chestnuts in Paris? Athletic intelligence is a funny turn of phrase in the context of proprioception. Will they help soccer and football teams train? Again, the synchronisation is better than human performance, and it is a fun little flick set to a primary Red, Blue, and Yellow colour scheme with wooden boxes and crates. These appeal to some who see those sorts of esthetic elements in contemporary video games' map designs. The robots themselves are the center piece of the show. The whole robot mask on mask off theme is presented more in Ex Machina by Alex Garland. And one supposes that following up that piece of cinema with clothing here might frighten some viewers, especially if it was a little bit too human or life like. So this sort of null costume design choice right now probably leads to a better image and more positive desired outcome for the firm which very likely has considered that option in their drafting and brain storming sessions.

Their film "Do You Love Me?" has 36,000,000 views as of now. It begins with a solo Atlas robot, White, with Blue and Black elements, dancing. Then the slowly smoothing continuous shot pans back but now we see mostly mid paced legs and arms movements. A pair of Atlases groove and jive with eachother, left and right arms in and out in sync. They bounce and fist bump the air foreward and then quickly and more juttily boop and execute an aerial 180 degree mid air turn jump. A bi wheeled big robot does a kind of humpy "head" and "bum" movement which is funny and ever so mildly "sexual" perhaps. Especially imitative is a shot of a quadripedal Yellow lanky robot executing ballerina like foot movements around the 1:37 mark. At 1:53 there is a more of a kind of celebtatory fist pumping and a "you put your left foot in, you put your left foot out..." style of dancing. This is somewhat historically informed and referential for those in the audience who are in touch with the dance canon and comprehend the referents. Then there is an up and down vertical movement sequence which is smooth after this primarily left and right driven shot. Some fun solo shots, more human like moves, and even a bit of quasi yoga strike the viewer. We see some of the most extreme smooth dancing and some of the most extreme jerky jerk movements in history quite possibly and it is all illuminated by sun light. This paints the firm in a good light, literally.

In Dance Magazine, Meet The Choreographer Behind Those Dancing Robots, Sydney Skybetter interviewed and spoke with the choreographer herself: Monica Thomas. She said of her background in dance and choreography: "Yes! I was trained in the Cecchetti method, and I remained committed to ballet through high school although I took modern, jazz and tap classes along the way." She had a lot of "autonomy" and learned by viewing the robots and then danced out the dances herself with her own body, just like many dance choregraphers do. Then she did work with engineering teams on programming movements into the robots' "bodies". She cannot ascribe much error to the dancing robots, for they make few or basically none in our perception. But the programmers of the robots get to program differently from how one would instruct human dancers. This field of robotics is extremely rich and deep, and many of us kiddos have had exposure to the basics via the Lego firm and Mindstorms products and software in our youths.

They discuss joints and flexibility which has to do with what they can and cannot do. How they can outperform humans at certain tasks like the aforementioned economically valuable ones. She is not named in the film but was paid, compensated for her hard work. She said it was very collaborative and she got public credit in the IEEE Spectrum article. On the robots she said "Towards the end of working with Spot, I could sense that there is something about leg pairings and their transitions that could make a really compelling rhythm or design to guide choreography, but I don’t quite know what it is that I’m imagining or how to even conceptualise it. And that is very exciting. I would absolutely do it again". Furthermore, in her own words, "Get really practiced at noticing movement! Watch how people, animals and machinery move. Pay attention to people walking down the street: How do they shift weight? How does the length of a femur change affect movement? What impacts your perception of what you are seeing"? These are very interesting questions for us to ponder and observe as we navigate our lives.

Robots have been depicted for quite some time in diverse media. From early scientific work, science fiction, and literary fiction like Sigfrid von Shrink in Gateway by Frederik Pohl, to cinema like C-3PO and R2-D2 in Star Wars or the eponymous WALL-E... to so many more. Robots can appear "good", "bad", or "neutral", simply by behaving as programmed. In any case, in what may perhaps have been low-key inspired by the film for Greyhound by Swedish House Mafia or the Transformers films, and what was certainly inspired by the Boston Dynamics marketing, there exist violent robots films of varying degrees of surreality, some of which are quite popular and have stirred up fears.

A recent Aeon headline read: "Truth Is Real". That is the rousing current state of affairs in the world, we have to remind people that yes, relativism and moral relativism can be True too, e.g., different people want different things and have different lived experiences and understandings of documents and art. But also, we [the voting populus] must be informed, as former United States Of America president Barack Obama recently reminded us from Stanford. And the Truth is that most likely the near and mid future of robots will be a net "good" for humanity at large in an objective and measurable way.

Boston Dynamics has its roots in military funding which can be a source for innovation and also weaponry. And real controversies have taken place including a New York art school techno prankster team MSCHF letting loose a Spot with a paintball gun strapped to its back, and a Spot patrolling the streets, controlled by the New York City Police Department. As deepfake technology improves and predatory media firms are incentivised to deceive us for their profit motives, be intellectually cautious and stay wary.

Insofar as long term cultural consequences are concerned, I still expect to see quite a lot of humans dancing. For we find the dancing activity itself to be a joyous and rewarding treat! But we shall also see what the future of robots dancing has in store, versus say simple animated films where anything goes and much of the imaginable can be made to be seen in the confines and constraints of such a film.

I like waxing on a bit about humans and my own love for humanity, humankind, and the biological. So I like the idea of viewing dancing robots which were choreographed by humans over those dances potentially generated entirely by machines. I prefer reading poetry from the history of the human species over that which was ouput by an Artificial Intelligence algorithm. And in the context of these art pieces as it were, taking the deeper dive into the dance background and production story with this choreographer really adds to the human dynamic at the firm Boston Dynamics!

Bibliography:

"Boston Dynamics." Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 26 Apr. 2022, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boston_Dynamics. 

Tangermann, Victor. "Shocker: Boston Dynamics Pissed Their Robodog Being Used for Prankster Violence." Futurism, Futurism, 25 Feb. 2021, https://futurism.com/boston-dynamics-mad-someone-using-terrifying-robodog-as-intended. 

Ackerman, Evan. "How Boston Dynamics Taught Its Robots to Dance." IEEE Spectrum, IEEE Spectrum, 24 June 2021, https://spectrum.ieee.org/how-boston-dynamics-taught-its-robots-to-dance. 

Curtis, Genevieve. "Dances with Robots, and Other Tales from the Outer Limits." The New York Times, The New York Times, 5 Nov. 2020, https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/05/arts/dance/dance-and-artificial-intelligence.html.

Ngowi, Rodrique. "Behind Those Dancing Robots, Scientists Had to Bust a Move." Associated Press, 20 Apr. 2021, https://apnews.com/article/boston-dynamics-robot-dancing-d684559324a385209c0da353a76363bc.

Cuan, Catie. "Dancing with Robots." Scientific American, https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/dancing-with-robots/. Accessed 5 Apr. 2022.

Wired.Com, https://www.wired.com/story/boston-dynamics-bts-spots-on-it/. Accessed 5 Apr. 2022.

Rella, Emily. "‘creepy’ Video of Robots Dancing Causes Internet Frenzy -- and Even Elon Musk Is Weighing In." Entrepreneur, 19 July 2021, https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/377766.

Skybetter, Sydney. "Meet the Choreographer behind Those Dancing Robots." Dance Magazine, 26 Mar. 2021, https://www.dancemagazine.com/boston-dynamics-dancing-robots/.