From Lazar Ilic: tabbed represents quotations.

	Intensity of the collective resentment.

	Their silence, in the close-knit world of stage performers, was tantamount to a village stoning.

	If you had asked Jerome Robbins why he acted the way he did, he would have said it was all in service of the art.

	When he told the dancers playing Puerto Ricans and whites that they could not associate with members of the opposite gang during the entire rehearsal period for West Side Story - and when, to exacerbate tensions between the two groups, he circulated scurrilous gossip about Jets among Sharks and about Sharks among Jets - he did so in order to create the level of manifest hatred that he felt the show demanded.

Mention that this sort of thing would strike many of us as a "sociopathic" action but does lead perhaps to his desired outcome as the one choreographing, running the show, and micromanaging his dancers and crew.

	Recalling her role in the ballet Age of Anxiety, Tanaquil Le Clercq complained that Robbins “rehearsed it to death . . . he changed it all the time,” working her and the other dancers until they were all “goofy with fatigue.”

Say he pushed them hard.

	When Robbins was dancing out of town, Bernstein would record what he had written as piano music for four hands (with his close friend Aaron Copland taking the other piano part) and send it to Jerry with warm and occasionally apologetic notes. When they were together, Jerry would stand behind Lenny at the piano, his hands on his shoulders, and viscerally let him know what kind of rhythms and melodies he wanted. Each commented on the extent to which they spoke the same language and saw things in much the same way—in part because of Jerry’s own musicality and musical training, but also because Lenny had a similar sense of how the classical and the jazzy, the elegant and the popular, could intersect in American art.

Say something about this. Seems like they were pals and had a good time by a piano drafting up compositions.

	Of the anxieties that Bernstein and Robbins shared with Auden, one was certainly over the question of sexuality. In 1946, the year he was working most intensively on the poem, W. H. Auden had the first and last sexual affair he would ever have with a woman, a Jewish American named Rhoda Jaffe whose friendship had (among other things) led him into a study of Jewish mysticism.

OK one can mention bisexuality and how some woman led him into more explorations of other things. One infers he was somewhat curious I am not a domain expert on what precisely Jewish mysticism means but it sounds odd and interesting.

	Robbins, though, took the threats of exposure more seriously than most. Perhaps because his choreographic career was on such a steep rise—or perhaps, conversely, because he felt he had such a tenuous grasp on the success he was manifestly having—he was terrified of what he would be left with if it were all taken away.

Just so it is clear the dude was recognised as a visionary genius in his life and those feelings can only be known by humans who are recognised as such and like his internal turmoils over ego and pride and willingness to be a bit of a controlling dude... these things happen.

	In his characteristic way, Jerry occasionally did things to further the dancers’ resentment. Whereas Balanchine was invariably polite in rehearsals, Jerry could lose his temper and make people feel terrible. In other ways, too, his rehearsals were psychologically more demanding than Balanchine’s. Several dancers recalled that though Mr. B.’s sessions could be harder technically, Jerry’s rehearsals put you through the emotional wringer, always demanding a certain degree of self-exposure. Others pointed out that because of his unending perfectionism, Jerome Robbins rehearsed forever, compared to Balanchine.

Well well well "practice makes more perfect" as they say or something like that.

	“Our people”—that is, Jews—accounted for a vast proportion of the show’s backers and creators, and there were the usual mordant jokes, as the production moved forward, about how to present the topic so that it would attract more than a Hadassah audience. That, it seemed, was the inherent danger of the material: the same thing that drew Robbins and his colleagues might be precisely what would blind them to its limitations, for they were in love with the subject itself and with its connection to their own pasts.

I think it is good to end on a positive note, so there you have it, the man was very very very interested in producing what he may have thought was a very highly potent form of cultural transmission about himself, his race, his heritage, Jewish culture, ideology, and so they worked very hard and promoted the themes and words and messages they wanted to as the other group members can talk about in the actual works and what they see or want but I think this is the right sort of ending point as I suppose this author did too sort of.