Workshop Analysis: Line Dancing
Lazar Ilic

For the most part it was relatively low to middle energy level. Footwork was critical. Casual. Familial. It was the sort of dancing a lot of people could do for the most part. He was trained and exhibited some additional degree of fluidity and nuance. There was something to do with momentum, I don't think that "momentous" is quite a word or right word. But the way some of the leg and arm movements were not quite sudden or sharp, but not quite fluid either, somewhere in a middle ground, half between. Rigidity in joint. Floppiness. Lateral slides. Boogie. Turning, not twirling.

I would say that it is a group choreographed dance with repetitive, fun movement. I would furthermore provide the concrete canonical examples of the Cha Cha Slide, Macarena, and Electric Slide. There are in fact many other examples. And other cultures sort of have line dancing. In any case I found that one of my favourite movements involved lateral side to side foot movements sliding. Most prominent for me, viewing X, was footwork throughout. I used to play tennis as a child, and some viewers fail to recognise how serious footwork training is in that sport. And here I made a little connection, it is rather tricky. The final physical skill I would mention is proprioception, rather a sense for balance. In alternating one leg movements, one can seriously fall or get a wee bit woozy or dizzy.

Frankly, I do not know that I really knew what "boogie" and "boogie-woogie" meant quite as well as I now do. I may have had a vagueish idea from extremely minor childhood memories. I knew it had to do with dancing, but not much more. Now I know much more about the literal technical movements, as well as some history and can read further.

My room is dim and my camera bad. I did not actually want to turn camera on, so I guess I will be embarassed in person on the 3rd dance workshop. Alas. In any case I got a little roasty and crampish, my legs not used to dancing or walking really I squat every 8 days, and that is about it. Appreciate I mean I appreciated the virtuality. I had the instructor large on my monitour and he was well lit. I had adequate floor space in my living room. I thought it was a fun session and this course includes a wide variety of distinct experiences and content, so I also do look forward to the 2 lectures we have on tap here in Dancing America.

Line Dancing has to do with some of the films we view in this course. It also has to do with memories of like cheerleaders at my high school during American Football games. And some other varied childhood memories. How is it social? I mean how is it not social it is a group choreographed dance. At a party the right thing can happen and everyone can come in with the shared cultural knowledge of a movement, and partake in a little dancing. A classmate provided an example of line dancing as an employee at the Texas Roadhouse chain of steakhouses. I thought that this was humorous enough I did a Google search and saw a film on YouTube where kiddos hopped in and joined staff. So it can be a nice thing I guess.