Hip Hop

Bumping, smooth, chill, hype, cool, mimetic, flowing, lightfooted, bubbling, charismatic, young.

I would say that hip hop dance is tied to but separate from the genre of music. And that it can be extremely fun, entertaining, a lot of upper movement, and lower too. Really enjoyable, uplifting, and quite pleasant at times. See other responses.

I do not know I mean it was kind of individual like I saw Mr. X at one point do a little hands twirling mid dance, and kind of realised it was just kind of 1 little move amongst many, many, many. And I threw a couple of my own little in the moment inspirations in the mix. He sure did have quite a ton of moves ready to share with us and show us.

I had fun and was not embarassed so. Energetic slides on the floor with the feet while waving the hands around was quite vibrant around 12 minutes into the class dancing session. A couple of the little right hand hand raised fingers spread palm out or one fore pointer finger extended movements evoked memories in me of disc jockeys I rather liked, for I had not thought much about their backgrounds either and how it might be that mimicry, the mirror neurons imitations, and perhaps some of them were learning from previous hip hop dancers or disc jockeys themselves. How these things are passed down in traditions. The dude was old but rocking young, maybe the dancing is part of the trick for him maybe it is the other way around. There was a kind of a womp womp like an antithesis to a "raise the roof" with both hands kind of like a "keep the floor down" was fun. Some of it was a little boogie style almost, some of it was nearly running. The whole thing was a lot of fun mostly smooth for me. Towards the end, the arms movements were lit!

I totally was surprised, I thought that I did know a thing or two about this particular type of dance, and I totally did not! Viewing 100 or 1000 YouTube films is nothing really and it makes me wonder that some of those people had a much wider and stronger foundation and base in a real culture I was missing out on. So I learned a lot of lot from doing some of these movements and having fun with it. Like when we were stepping but kind of slowed it down like step forward with one leg, hang, and then make the step kind of surprise the viewer too I mean.