I am thinking that after The Boring Project, perhaps I hop back in the mix with observing those Machine Learning Trading codebases and Kaggles and perhaps enter a Trading competition or simply compose some nice ideation. I have never been at a firm but with what little I know about the markets, econometrics, etc. might want to try and just draft up a little something here a little something there... uh freely openly ideate and hypothesis generate in a sorta kinda way to demonstrate that I might have that technical skill or might not really uh spotting causal connections, fact claims, useful, helpful information and datasets and measurements which can be captured.

Just so it is totally clear like right now I am fairly ignorant I know that there exist tons of metrics which are released by firms, I know that certain things can be observed externally in private or for sale datasets, I know that laws change but can also imply and force the release of certain datasets.

I know that like some stocks or assets are perhaps correlated or anti correlated in the causal fabrique strooture of reality sometimes but sometimes not and like potentially one would hope to have a human correctly classify some News bits so as to mitigate against some risk here or interpretation of something some information in some way.

I know that I have observed tons of papers and Kaggles on a variety of topics which suggests fairly strong models for certain sorts of phenomena. I guess the more econometrics readings I do here relatively shortly ought to inform something.

Uh in terms of like Kalshi observations or other prediction markets to be used further in other predictions it is uh... potentially interesting one supposes. But like having never done an internship is a shame with respect to the precise sorts of statistical arbitrage that have gone down historically. I mean I understand some of the real world key ideas in famous kind of meme big predictions as well as some of the supposed key points and ideas from Taleb.

I think that like in the causal chains some downstream effects of certain law changes or geo politics is tricky tricky tricky stuff and some people like think that they have some sort of a centaur edge.

I am really not even that sure like I think that the IMC firm for some positions expects candidates to present an ad hoc de novo .txt output analysis of some News clips or market events and movements. I dunno one can easily find simple little story shticks about like Boris Johnson and low economic growth in Britain in the United Kingdom. I really dunno even to be sure like some news clips of opinions about say gun reform might lead to speculation on the direct stock prices of say gun manufacturing firms and this may lead to sort of secondary impacts to uh say gun powder and a variety of correlated auxiliary assets now whether we really see an uptick in other hobbies and their implements uh... if say this at the margin led to more people choosing fishing as a sport or whatever uh errm you know but like... I dunno obvious simple stuff how sophisticated one really thinks these things are or can be I mean I understood that simple linear regressions which execute rapidly are in fact useful as well as some Machine Learning models based upon <50 input vectors.

Again not totally sure what was understood about causal structure and inference at the Jane Street Capital firm or elsewhere beyond the usual like Generalised Linear Models... Judea Pearl and so on and so on... uh learn more I guess.

I am like fairly confident I am not currently in a terribly good position to openly ideate and even if I was at a firm say with some time series data from actual markets not totally sure I would really know what to do after messing around for like 100 hours in Python trying stuff out. I uh really just not sure seems like my edge to the Software Engineering edge might be the realio dealio Good path for me. Mix it mash it moosh it some C in a keyboard in a codebase maybe maybe hustler.

OK so I might speak with the right sorts of people and read the right sorts of books throw up something more half interesting here in public to demonstrate that I really am the shnizz and I really do deserve a meritorious job offer. I aspire to being the perfect cog in Kapital I want to be a Good little performant Keep Your Head Down battery in The Matrix.